# 2020-February-27 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2020-02-27

## Attending

* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) -TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes and updated issues with resolutions.

## Topics

### [[Info] OpenJS Conference & Collab Summit FYIs for Project Communities](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/12961)

* @kaicataldo added this to the TSC agenda for two reasons:
	1. To make sure we are all aware of the travel assistance, if anyone wants to attend
	1. To see if we want to participate in the collab summit
* Nobody is able to travel at that time.

**Resolution**: ESLint will not participate.

### [Handling warnings/errors for configuration and other non-rule issues](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/12650)

* @kaicataldo reopened this issue after it was auto-closed due to inactivity.
* It is something that the TSC will need to look at, but it's not yet at a point where we can discuss it in a meeting.

**Resolution**: Discussion is deferred to a future meeting.

### [New: Config File Simplification](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/9)

**TSC Summary:** This RFC proposes a new simplified configuration system for ESLint. The design is fleshed out enough that the key concepts are obvious and the key differences from the current system are clear. More work is needed to incorporate the config options added since this RFC was first proposed and to handle edge cases, however, I believe the RFC is complete enough for us to decide if we want to go in this direction.

**TSC Question:** Do we want to accept this RFC with the understanding that there will still be more iteration before it it finalized?

* @kaicataldo has a few concerns about the details but is generally in support of the direction of this RFC.
* @btmills asks if this non-serializable format would complicate parallel linting. @nzakas replies that we couldn't pass the config to a worker, but each worker could load the config.
* @mysticatea thinks drastic config system changes are no longer necessary because much of the Motivation section has already been addressed.
* @kaicataldo feels the existing config system is far too complex in both code and developer experience, particularly as it relates to loading plugins, and it's a bad sign when even maintainers have to go through docs and code to answer questions about config loading.
* @btmills feels that while we can address some of the motivations for this RFC, e.g. the `--ext` flag, inside of the existing config format, there are parts that are too complicated and deserve a re-think. Removing the cascade/extends/overrides is the most compelling part of this RFC.
* Some config semantics, namely the `--ext` flag and pluging loading paths, have changed since this RFC was written, so the portions that originally addressed those could be simplified. @nzakas thinks any new options added since the RFC was written should be straghtforward definition additions.
* @nzakas isn't happy with `defs`. @btmills and @kaicataldo agree. @nzakas believes that the bulk of the work remaining will be around naming. If two different plugins are defined with the same name in the calculated config, it would error, but duplicates wouldn't, though @mysticatea points out that ESLint wouldn't know where the collision came from.
* @nzakas would like to remove environments, but that's not a required part of this RFC.
* @kaicataldo is :+1: to the general direction.
* @btmills feels that removing the cascade is a big win and that despite some details like `defs` not being there yet, the RFC is directionally a good way to achieve a simpler config system.
* @nzakas asks if @mysticatea will support the decision to move forward with the RFC despite concerns because the rest of the team is on board. @mysticatea agrees removing the cascade and environments are big wins.
* @nzakas intends to iterate on the design until we iron out the remaining wrinkles.

**Resolution**: We will accept the direction of the RFC and keep iterating on the details.

### [Release Cadence](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/165#issuecomment-589232802)

* @nzakas: Let's decide if we want to keep doing releases every four weeks or go back to every two. The README still says we do releases every two weeks so we should either fix the README or fix the release schedule.
* We originally went to four weeks due to the difficulty of finding two people to run the release every two weeks. @nzakas feels it's fine to have one person do non-major releases.
* @kaicataldo prefers two weeks and would be willing to be the point person but would appreciate help as well.
* @mysticatea prefers two weeks if possible.
* @btmills prefers two weeks as well and notes that having @kaicataldo around could make it easier to find overlapping availability.
* @btmills feels that one-person releases are feasible now that releases are more automated.
* @kaicataldo is in favor of one-person releases and would want to stop merging a bunch of PRs right before the release to decrease the workload on the person doing the release.
* @nzakas and @btmills agree doing more merging prior to release days would help.
* :+1: to one person running releases every two weeks from @kaicataldo, @btmills, and @mysticatea.

**Resolution**: We will go back to releasing every two weeks, and one person will run non-major releases. @kaicataldo will run the 2019-02-28 release.

### [v7 Release Timeline](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/165#issuecomment-591007823)

* @nzakas: Let's see if we can sketch out a rough timeline for v7.0.0. Our latest 6.x release was over two months ago, and I'd like to see what we can do to get v7.0.0 as quickly as possible.
* @kaicataldo is working on the the new `ESLint` API, which is the last outstanding bigger issue, and believes it could be ready for review next week.
* We can't [deprecate Node-specific core rules](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/12835) until the corresponding PR [adding them to `eslint-plugin-node`](https://github.com/mysticatea/eslint-plugin-node/pull/206) is released, which @mysticatea believes could happen within the next week.
* @btmills suggests that March 13th could be the first beta or rc release depending on how things go. :+1: from @nzakas, @kaicataldo, and @mysticatea.

**Resolution**: Shoot to have breaking changes merged in time for a beta or rc release on March 13th.
