# 2020-May-07 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2020-05-07

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) -TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes and updated issues with resolutions.

## Topics

### [New: Add a config:off for disabling all rules](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/13079)

**TSC Summary**

This proposal introduces the idea of an internal `eslint:off` configuration to extend off of. Practically speaking, this is the opposite of `eslint:all`. 

This would allow for end users to run one rule (which is useful for cases like introducing a new rule and autofixing it) at a time while keeping the rest of their configuration (parsers, plugins. etc.) intact. There are workarounds to this, but they all involve figuring out the rest of the config and either passing it to ESLint via CLI flags or through a separate configuration file.

**TSC Question**

Do we want to accept this proposal?

* @nzakas has commented about not being a fan of the proposal but does not feel strongly if others like it.
* @mysticatea points out that if implemented as a shared config, this wouldn't be invokable via a CLI flag because we don't have `--extends`.
* The original pull request description, its comment thread, and conversation with @ljharb in the [public Gitter chat](https://gitter.im/eslint/eslint/archives/2020-05-07) during the meeting indicate that the use case is temporarily turning off all rules, including plugin rules, for debugging or gradual migration purposes. `eslint:none` would _not_ disable plugin rules.
* While `eslint:none` is complementary to `eslint:all`, because it wouldn't be usable via a CLI flag and wouldn't turn off plugin rules, it wouldn't address the original use case.
* @nzakas proposes requesting an RFC for further evaluation. :+1: from @kaicatalod, @btmills, and @mysticatea.

**Resolution**: This feature needs an RFC describing the use case and possible implementation.

### [[Espree] Breaking: drop Node v8 support](https://github.com/eslint/espree/pull/429)

* @kaicataldo: This is less of a question/actionable item and more just a PSA, but with the planned release of ESLint v7.0.0 this coming Friday, I wanted to touch base about also merging https://github.com/eslint/espree/pull/429 and running an Espree release.
* @kaicataldo opened the pull request, and @btmills, @nzakas, and @mysticatea have already approved it.
* @nzakas suggests merging and releasing it today so that tests tomorrow are run against the new version.
* No decision or resolution is required in the meeting.

### [Supporting dependencies on Open Collective](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/175#issuecomment-624958501)

* @nzakas: I’d like to discuss how we can support some of our dependencies that have Open Collective pages.
* The author of one of our dependencies, [epoberezkin/ajv](https://github.com/epoberezkin/ajv), reached out to @nzakas requesting sponsorship.
* @nzakas would like to start giving back a nominal amount to some of our first-level dependencies that are seeking funding.
* :+1: from @mysticatea
* @btmills sees this as compatible with ESLint sponsors' desires to support ESLint's development because the dependencies are part of what makes ESLint possible.
* @kaicataldo feels this would set an example for other projects to follow in supporting sustainable open source practices.
* @nzakas proposes starting off with a $100/month donation to Ajv, looking for opportunities to sponsor other dependencies, and writing a blog post if we find enough.
* @kaicataldo prefers budgeting a certain amount dedicated to sponsoring dependencies and suggests starting with the aforementioned $100.
* @nzakas suggests starting with a $500/month budget until we know how many dependencies want support so that we don't have to increase the budget for each project.
* For reference, https://backyourstack.com/eslint lists dependencies with Open Collective pages.
* :+1: from @kaicatalod, @btmills, and @mysticatea.

**Resolution**: Budget $500/month for sponsoring open source dependencies, starting with Ajv at $100/month. @nzakas opened [eslint/finances#9](https://github.com/eslint/finances/issues/9) for the budget item..

### [ESLint v7 release](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13224)

* The v7.0.0 release is scheduled for tomorrow, 2020-05-08.
* @nzakas asks if there are any blockers or concerns.
* @btmills has been using it and hasn't encountered issues since the release candidate.
* @kaicataldo has no concerns and will merge and release the [Espree change](https://github.com/eslint/espree/pull/429) after the meeting.
* @kaicataldo is coordinating with the OpenJS Foundation for marketing around the release.
* @mysticatea has no concerns.
* @nzakas confirms that @kaicataldo will put together a blog post with all the changes since v7.0.0-alpha.0. @kaicataldo plans to do it manually unless someone has a better idea.
* No decision or resolution is required in the meeting.
