# 2020-December-31 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2020-12-31-transcript.md`](2020-12-31-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes and updated issues with resolutions.

## Topics

### [Update: check logical assignment in no-constant-condition](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/13946)

* This PR adds the ES2021 logical assignment operators `||=` and `&&=` as possible errors for `no-constant-condition`. It would now report e.g. `if (a ||= true)`. It already reports `if (a = a || true)` but not `if (a || (a = true))`. 
* Is this a semver-minor or semver-major change?
* The rule does not currently check other shorthand assignment operators like `|=`. Should we include all shorthand assignment operators as part of this change?
* Logically, `||=` and `&&=` are similar to `=`, `||`, and `&&` that the rule already handles. `=` evaluates to the right side, and `||` and `&&` have some simple operator-specific logic. Operators like `|=` would require more complex operation-specific logic than the rule currently has.
* Our semver policy says "A bug fix in a rule that results in ESLint reporting more linting errors" is a semver-minor change. This isn't a bug fix. Does that make it semver-major?
* We have precedent but no official policy for adding support for new language features in semver-minor enhancements. We should answer this and update our semver policy.
* @mdjermanovic suggests allowing probable error additions for new rules in semver-minor releases but leaving more opinion-based rules like `complexity` for semver-major changes.
* @nzakas and @btmills prefer to have a single policy for all rules.
* @btmills leans toward semver-major as the safer change, though waiting for major releases would be annoying.
* @nzakas leans toward semver-minor because early adopters probably expect some friction. @btmills could see using pre-stage 4 language features as opting into that.
* We already have a one-year window to accept new rules for new language features. We could do the same for adding checks to rules.
* @nzakas proposes allowing changes to any category of rule for new language features in semver-minor releases. :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @btmills.

**Resolution**: @nzakas will update our semantic version policy to allow new errors for new language features in semver-minor releases.

### Contributor awards

* @yeonjuan and @anikethsaha have been active in the last month.
* @mreinstein worked on adding an ES Module export to Espree.
* @luxaritas, @JackNapis, and Siddhant were all active in #help.
* @nzakas proposes $100 to each of the six nominees. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution**: @nzakas will reach out to all six nominees to give them $100 for their contributions in December.

### [Scheduled release for January 1st, 2021](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13950)

**Resolution**: @mdjermanovic will do the release.
