# 2020-November-19 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2020-11-19-transcript.md`](2020-11-19-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes and updated issues with resolutions.

## Topics

### [eslint --init should offer to save custom configs](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13803)

**TSC Summary:** This proposal seeks to allow a way to save custom configs to be selected as part of `--init`. This would involve a way to specify which configs to include and then display them when `--init` is used. This would require an RFC before implementation.

**TSC Question:** Shall we accept this proposal?

* @mdjermanovic, @nzakas, and @btmills all feel this is too much complexity for something rarely run with a copy & paste alternative.
* :-1: from @nzakas, @mdjermanovic, and @btmills

**Resolution**: We will not accept this proposal.

### [Add Yarn in eslint --init](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13645)

**TSC Summary:** This proposal seeks to add a question to `--init` asking if dependencies should be installed with npm or yarn.

**TSC Question:** Shall we accept this proposal?

* :+1: from @mdjermanovic, who suggests asking `Which package manager does your project use?` and defaulting to `npm`.
* :+1: from @btmills, who notes Yarn has become much more popular since we previously considered this question.
* :1+: from @nzakas, who has no strong feelings.
* @btmills notes that this might open the door to requests for other package managers, but we can always decline for insufficiently popular packages. @nzakas concurs.
* @mdjermanovic clarifies that we won't make any assumptions, just always ask and default to `npm`.

**Resolution**: `--init` will ask whether to use `npm` (default) or `yarn`.

### [Should we extend no-constant-condition to catch comparisons that are constant due to type mismatch?](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13752)

**TSC Summary:** This proposal seeks to add three checks into `no-constant-condition`:

1. Consider short circuiting operations (`||` , `&&`) to be conditions
1. Consider any comparison binary expression (`==`, `!==`) to be a “condition”. This would warn: `myTestFunc({} == false)`
1. Consider null conditions, not just boolean conditions ( `{} ?? foo, !foo == null`)

There is consensus that proposals 2 and 3 do not belong in `no-constant-condition`. @nzakas proposes that all three proposals be included in a new `no-constant-binary-operand` rule.

**TSC Question:** Shall we accept this as a new rule proposal for `no-constant-binary-operand`?

* :+1: from @btmills
* @mdjermanovic feels `no-constant-binary-operand` doesn't fit cases like `!foo === a + b` because it's the not the operands but the whole expression that's constant.
* @nzakas suggests `no-constant-binary-expression`.
* Given e.g. `{} && foo`, the expression is always equal to `foo`.
* @btmills can't come up with a better name to describe an operand that causes an expression to always evaluate the same way and is fine with either suggested name.
* @nzakas and @mdjermanovic prefer `no-constant-binary-expression` given the examples in the discussion.

**Resolution**: We've accepted the proposal for a new `no-constant-binary-expression` rule.

### [Follow identifiers to their declaration in `no-constant-condition`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13776)

**TSC Summary:** This proposal seeks to have `no-constant-condition` follow the value of identifiers and consider that value as part of it's evaluation. This would allow us to capture more errors when identifiers are assigned a value once and then used in a condition. Optionally, it might make sense to build this into `eslint-scope` to allow other rules to use the same functionality.

**TSC Question:** Shall we accept this proposal?

* :+1: from @mdjermanovic, @btmills, and @nzakas pending discussion of some implementation details.
* @nzakas suggests accepting the proposal but requiring an RFC. :+1: from @mdjermanovic. @btmills would like to see the RFC discuss which cases we're choosing to follow and answer the `eslint-scope` question from @nzakas in the issue thread.

**Resolution**: We will accept the proposal and require an RFC before implementation.

### [Extend hourly contributor rate to reviewers](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/219#issuecomment-729866470)

* @nzakas: Agenda item: I'd like to propose we extend the TSC $50/hour up to 20 hours each month to reviewers. I think that this would incentivize people to continue working towards reviewer status and would also allow for TSC members to revert back to reviewer status without giving up the ability to be paid for their contributions.
* :+1: from @mdjermanovic.
* :+1: from @btmills, who notes we have the budget headroom now.
* @nzakas thanks Automattic and Google Chrome for that.
* @btmills suggests a blog post thanking Automattic and Google and talking about using it to extend payments to reviewers.
* @nzakas agrees but would like to have more to announce concurrently. We're still waiting on quotes from both.

#### Monthly budget for committers and new contributors

*Continued from previous topic.*

* @nzakas would like to find a way to pay committers as well but doesn't feel the honor-based hourly approach is a good model for people we don't know well yet.
* @btmills agrees once we can figure out a good system.
* @nzakas suggests setting aside $500/month for the TSC to award to the biggest contributions from committers and new contributors. "Biggest" could be any of quantity, feature importance, impact, etc. in the TSC's judgement.
* @btmills is fine with the vague definition initially.
* @nzakas envisions the TSC deciding is the fastest way to start initially with the possibility for metrics in the future.
* :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @btmills.

**Resolution**: We will set aside $500 for the TSC to award based on contributions each month. @nzakas will file the budget issue.

### [Scheduled release for November 20th, 2020](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13827)

* @mdjermanovic will run the release.
* @nzakas and @btmills will review [New: Add no-nonoctal-decimal-escape rule (fixes #13765)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/13845) before the release.
