# 2020-September-24 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2020-09-24-transcript.md`](2020-09-24-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes and updated issues with resolutions.

## Topics

### [Tidelift payments](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/208#issuecomment-696226379)

* @nzakas: Agenda item: Let's discuss the changes we'll be making to how we manage Tidelift payments and ensure everyone is signed up.
* @nzakas and @kaicataldo are already set up. @mdjermanovic and @btmills have signed up but still under review.
* The total amount will be split evenly between all of the TSC members who have set up Tidelift accounts.

### [Triage team](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/208#issuecomment-697850859)

* @nzakas: Agenda item: It's like to revisit the discussion around a community manager. My thinking has changed a bit (mostly about the title and also about how many people we'd want), and want to run my latest thinking by the team to see if we want to move forward.
* @nzakas proposes creating a "triage team" of two people instead of just one. The $1,000/mo triage budget would be split between the two. This should reduce the risk of having to start over if one doesn't work out.
* :+1: from @btmills, who comments that it should also spread out availability.
* :+1: to having two positions from @kaicataldo, who asks whether we'd be capping hours and why the $25/hr rate is lower than the TSC rate.
* @nzakas confirms that each of two triage team members would work up to 20 hours per month. The $25/hr rate is lower because the scope of work is a subset of the TSC's work, and it's the same as we pay @platinumazure for support in Discord. For reference, the rate was first decided in the [2020-07-16 TSC meeting](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/blob/c6becda998a0c10a9f330f26312b13eb3506c457/notes/2020/2020-07-16.md#hiring-a-community-manager).
* @kaicataldo is a bit uncomfortable having multiple payment tiers because all of the work requires specialized knowledge but defers to the existing decision.
* @mdjermanovic asks for clarification on whether this position is only responsible for GitHub issue triage.
* @nzakas summarizes the discussion from before @mdjermanovic joined the TSC: The triage team would be the first point of contact with the ESLint team in issues, PRs, and possibly Discord. They'd convert questions to discussions, categorize issues and PRs, and request any additional information. If issues and PRs are actionable and ready for decision when the TSC sees them, the TSC can dedicate more time to implementation, writing RFCs, and reviewing code and RFCs.
* :+1: from @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution**: We'll have a 2-person triage team paid at $25/hr up to 20hr per person per month.

### [Scheduled release for September 25th, 2020](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13692)

**Resolution**: @mdjermanovic will do the release with help from @btmills on Saturday, September 26th, 2020.
