# 2020-December-03 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2020-12-03-transcript.md`](2020-12-03-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes and updated issues with resolutions.

## Topics

### [Espree pending breaking changes](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/222#issuecomment-736763408)

@nzakas: Agenda item: We have several open issues on Espree that would be breaking changes:

1. [would you be open to a pure es module?](https://github.com/eslint/espree/issues/457)
2. [Range information is inconsistent for Program nodes with leading whitespace](https://github.com/eslint/espree/issues/349) - not originally marked as breaking, but maybe should be?
3. [Breaking: acorn 8.0.4](https://github.com/eslint/espree/pull/456)

Let's figure out which of these we would like to move forward with and whether or not we want to bundle them all together into a single major release.

#### [Range information is inconsistent for Program nodes with leading whitespace](https://github.com/eslint/espree/issues/349)

* @mdjermanovic agrees espree#349 should be treated as a breaking change and suggets fixing `TemplateElement` nodes simultaneously. @nzakas agrees.
* @mysticatea notes that `node.start` and `note.end` were accidentally introduced by moving `espree` to `acorn` but are not used by core rules and flagged by `RuleTester` per [RFC25](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/tree/master/designs/2019-rule-tester-improvements#1-disallowing-nodestart-and-nodeend). Changing `node.range` would be breaking for `eslint`. @nzakas notes this could still be a concern for third-party rules. @btmills clarifies that this change would update so `node.start === range[0] && node.end === range[1]`.
* @mdjermanovic suggests treating espree#349 as a breaking change for espree but letting `eslint` bump its `espree` dependency in a minor version. :+1: from @btmills, @nzakas, and @mysticatea.

**Resolution**: This is a breaking change for `espree`, and `eslint` will upgrade in a minor version.

#### [would you be open to a pure es module?](https://github.com/eslint/espree/issues/457)

* @nzakas: This proposes publishing Espree as a single package containing both ESM and CommonJS.
* @btmills feels we'll want to be an ES module eventually and prefers an intermediate step with a dual package now to a hard cutover later. @nzakas agrees since we have a contributor excited to work on it.
* @mysticatea and @mdjermanovic want to clarify what a "dual package" would be.
* While the issue mentioned supporting importing from the browser, @mdjermanovic and @nzakas agree the important part is an ESM export, and we can leave the web bundling component to skypack.dev.
* Thanks to Node interop, either `import` or `require()` can import a CommonJS package.
* :+1: to producing a dual CommonJS/ESM package for Node.js from @nzakas, @btmills, @mdjermanovic, and @mysticatea.
* @nzakas asks if we want an RFC for this change. That would require ~6 weeks for the RFC process, which could be a problem if we want to upgrade `acorn` in the same release. @nzakas could go either way. @btmills and @mdjermanovic want one.

**Resolution**: We want an RFC for this change.

#### [Breaking: acorn 8.0.4](https://github.com/eslint/espree/pull/456)

* Stage 4 topics have not yet been added for the January 2021 TC39 meeting.
* There are no features urgently awaiting an `acorn` upgrade, so nobody has objections to the delay from a dual-package RFC.

**Resolution**: We'll include all three of these changes in a major release.

### [Reviewing community contributions](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/222#issuecomment-736776275)

@nzakas: Agenda item: let's review community contributions for November to determine who should receive the community contributions stipends.

- https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pulse/monthly
- https://github.com/eslint/espree/pulse/monthly
- https://github.com/eslint/eslintrc/pulse/monthly
- https://github.com/eslint/website/pulse/monthly

* We have a $500 pool available to anyone who isn't on the TSC or a Reviewer.
* @nzakas nominates siddhant for helping out in the #help channel.
* yeonjuan leads with 19 commits in the last month, was active in a few issues, and is not a Reviewer.
* ljharb has joined several issue discussions.
* anikethsaha has a PR up and helped in a few issues.
* @nzakas proposes this month yeonjuan $250, anikethsaha $100, siddhant $100, and ljharb $50. :+1: from @btmills, @mdjermanovic, and @mysticatea.

**Resolution**: @nzakas will contact these contributors.

### [Docs: Reorganize Configuration Documentation](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/13837)

* @nzakas reminders everyone to keep an eye on this as we wrap up this project.

### [Scheduled release for December 4th, 2020](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13878)

* @btmills will do the release.
* `@eslint/eslintrc` and `espree` will be released first, followed by bumping their versions in `eslint`'s `package.json` before releasing `eslint`.
