# 2020-May-21 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2020-05-21-transcript.md`](2020-05-21-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) -TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes and updated issues with resolutions.

## Topics

### [Sponsorship Update](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/177#issuecomment-631020194)

From @nzakas unless otherwise noted:

#### Current sponsorships

* Current recurring donations, not counting one-offs, come to around $8,600 per month.
* Monthly expenditures total up to $8,500 comprised of: $5,000 for @kaicataldo's salary; up to $1,000 each for @nzakas, @btmills, and @mysticatea's TSC contributions; and up to $500 for supporting our dependencies; though the latter two categories have historically been below budget.
* Facebook needs to renew their Open Collective fund, and doing so would add $1,000/month. If Airbnb layoffs mean cuts to OSS donations, that would remove $1,000/month. Of three potential new sponsors, one seems very likely.
* Our current balance is $76,000, and the goal is to stay above $60,000 as a 1-year buffer for @kaicataldo's salary.
* The current budget does not leave room for another part-time developer. While fundraising during the pandemic will likely be difficult, the long-term goal for long-term sustainability with more than one paid maintainer is still $20,000, with $15,000/month as a significant intermediate step.
* No questions from @kaicataldo or @btmills. @btmills supports the $60,000 low water mark for job security.

#### Tidelift

* @nzakas emailed the TSC about working with Tidelift for additional sponsorship income.
* @kaicataldo reached out to other teams inquiring about their experiences and did not hear anything that would cause concern.
* @btmills found Tidelift's requirements, e.g. an automated dependency license check, decently aligned but wants to confirm the required dependency updates apply to vulnerable versions without requiring keeping dependencies evergreen. @nzakas and @kaicataldo both interpreted it as the former, alleviating @btmills's concern.
* @kaicataldo and @nzakas will administer the Tidelift account.
* Tidelift funds (currently around $2,000/month) will be deposited directly to @kaicataldo and offset the amount invoiced from Open Collective each month.
* :+1: from @btmills and @kaicataldo.

**Resolution**: We've resolved to work with Tidelift.

#### Merchandise

* The Open JS Foundation is working out details for t-shirts and other swag.
* This is not likely to be a big money maker.

#### Ads

* eslint.org used to have an ad that brought in ~$100/month.
* The JS Foundation required its removal, but under the Open JS Foundation we could add it back.
* @kaicataldo is concerned about ads on the site but would be open to hearing proposals.
* @nzakas, in response to an inquiry from @btmills, says that the ad was through Carbon Ads, and would only consider using the Carbon Ads and CodeFund networks, which are ethical advertisers that target tech content.
* @btmills wouldn't object to an add if others were enthusiastic about it but feels it would likely have low ROI.
* @nzakas compares $100/month to 20 new $5/month individual donors.
* @nzakas, in response to an inquirty from @btmills, provides that the old ad was in the top right corner of each page.
* @btmills suggests A/B testing an ad vs an Open Collective sponsorship blurb.
* @nzakas says we can split test with Netlify.
* :+1: to an A/B test from @nzakas, @btmills, and @kaicataldo.

**Resolution**: @nzakas will look into an ad and A/B testing with an Open Collective donation.

### [New policy for rule changes](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/177#issuecomment-631177488)

@nzakas: I’d like to discuss cutting down on the amount of changes we do related to rules. This is the majority of our work and it’s unsustainable at the current rate. Specifically I suggest:

1. No new rules unless they are related to new syntax. (New syntax meaning the syntax is stage 4 within the last 12 months.) This is the only way a new rule has enough value to validate the maintenance cost.
2. No new rules that just disallow a syntax. The no-restricted-syntax rule should be used instead.
3. No further changes to stylistic rules. We can’t keep implementing everyone’s strange preferences.
4. New options in existing rules must be implemented by the community. They can request, we can approve, but we won’t be implementing.

* No objections from @btmills, who notes the endless variety of stylistic opinions.
* Regarding changes to stylistic rules, @kaicataldo requests clarification that we should still implement bug fixes.
* @nzakas originally intended to do bug fixes for non-stylistic rules but avoid tracking down edge cases on stylistic rules, for example `indent` in particular.
* @nzakas would be fine fixing bugs in all rules in the short term while keeping an eye out for stylistic rules.
* @kaicataldo is in favor of setting a high standard for what constitutes a bug but notes the challenge with an ambiguous policy.
* @btmills suggests a middle ground where we only review fixes stylistic bugs from outside contributors, but @nzakas is willing to continue fixing all bugs.
* @btmills agrees on a high bar for bugs, and @kaicataldo suggests that if something is more opinion than bug it shouldn't be fixed.
* @kaicataldo suggests revisiting workload from stylistic bug fixes in a month or two.

**Resolution**: We'll follow the suggestions as proposed for rule changes going forward, and @nzakas will send an email explaining the policy.

### [Scheduled release for May 22nd, 2020](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13292)

* @kaicataldo volunteers to be the designated release person for the foreseeable future and will let the team know if unable to do a release.

**Resolution**: @kaicataldo will do the release.

### Meeting transcript

* @kaicataldo will generate the transcript.
* @nzakas suggests putting it alongside the meeting notes as e.g. `2020-05-21-transcript.md`.
* @kaicataldo suggests combining the regular meeting notes at the top with the full transcript at the bottom.
* @nzakas prefers keeping it separate for now to make automating it easier.
* @btmills notes that we'll be able to retroactively combine notes and transcripts later if we want.
