# 2020-August-27 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2020-08-27-transcript.md`](2020-08-27-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes and updated issues with resolutions.

## Topics

### [Using Draft Pull Requests](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/202#issuecomment-680360750)

* @nzakas: Can we start using pull request drafts instead of the “do not merge” label? I think it better indicates the status of the PR and prevents accidental merging.
* :+1: from @kaicataldo, @mysticatea, @btmills
* @mdjermanovic brings up the case where a pull request is waiting for the release of another package. This happens frequently with new syntax requiring updating the `espree` version in `package.json`.
* @nzakas still prefers a draft since it still needs a change before it can be merged, and @kaicataldo thinks this is an edge case and a comment requesting review of the draft would be sufficient.
* @btmills thinks leaving breaking changes as drafts is fine if they're complete and just waiting for a new major version release.
* @nzakas's goal is to spend our limited available review time carefully by not having to review PRs twice if not necessary.
* @nzakas proposes trying draft PRs for now to see if there are any problematic edge cases.
* :+1: from @mdjermanovic, @btmills, and @kaicataldo.

**Resolution**: Pull requests should remain as drafts until they're ready to be reviewed and merged.

### [Sponsoring Eleventy and Sindre Sorhus](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/202#issuecomment-680362478)

* @nzakas: As part of our donations to other projects, I’d like to suggest we start a monthly donation of $100 to Eleventy and Sindre Sorhus (we use several of his modules).
* Of our $500/mo budget to support dependencies, so far we've allocated $100/mo to Ajv.
* :+1: from @kaicataldo, @mdjermanovic, @btmills, and @mysticatea.

**Resolution**: We will donate $100/mo to Eleventy and $100/mo to Sindre Sorhus. @nzakas will set it up on Open Collective.

### uBlock Origin Hiding Sponsor Logos

* @kaicataldo noticed that sponsor logos weren't showing up on https://eslint.org/ and determined they were being hidden by uBlock Origin. Sponsors still show on https://kaicataldo.com/sponsors/, so it's not the assets themselves.
* @nzakas uses two other ad blockers that don't block the sponsor logos and suggests filing an issue with uBlock Origin at https://github.com/uBlockOrigin/uAssets.
* @btmills determines it's blocking the `.sponsor-link` class we use and suggests using another class name.
* @nzakas prefers to change the rule in uBlock Origin instead.

**Resolution**: @kaicataldo will open an issue with uBlock Origin to un-hide sponsor links on https://eslint.org/.

### Website Updates

* @nzakas 1) Open Collective is working on a way for us to block online casinos, but until that's available, we could filter out a list of user IDs during website generation.
* @nzakas 2) The 50/50 split test on the website is earning $7-$10/day in ads, and during the same time we've received $48 in non-recurring donations from individuals and $350 from a company.
* @btmills asks if we get attribution information from Open Collective to determine which ones came from the website.
* @nzakas says we're only able to guess based on time frame, and we have a base rate of 1-3 one-time donations each week.
* @btmills proposes defining an end time for the split test. Unless one-time donations exceed ad revenue or recurring donations are on a trajectory to surpass ad revenue if given more time, we'd then switch fully to ads.
* @nzakas suggests a month. The test started on August 17th.
* @nzakas agrees on a month and suggests the TSC meeting on August 24th.
* :+1: from @nzakas, @mdjermanovic, @kaicataldo, and @mysticatea.

**Resolution**: We will review split test performance and decide on a treatment at the TSC meeting on August 24th.

### [Scheduled release for August 28th, 2020](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13587)

* @kaicataldo is able to do the release.
* @kaicataldo requests review of the remaining new syntax pull requests before the release. :+1: from @mdjermanovic, @btmills, @mysticatea, and @nzakas.
* @nzakas reminds @kaicataldo to send a pull request from `master` to `no-ads` once the website has been updated to keep both split test branches up to date.

**Resolution**: @kaicataldo will do the release and update the `no-ads` branch on the website.
