# 2020-August-13 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2020-08-13-transcript.md`](2020-08-13-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes and updated issues with resolutions.

## Topics

### [Roadmap Brainstorming](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13482)

**TSC Summary:** This issue was used for brainstorming roadmap features going forward. It seems that the ones we can agree on doing are:

* Simple Config (est: 6 months, lead: @nzakas) eslint/rfcs#9
* Google Season of Docs (est: 3 months, lead: @kaicataldo )
* Parallel linting (est: TBD, lead: @mysticatea/@btmills)
* Website redesign (est: TBD, lead: @nzakas/@kaicataldo)

I think that ESM support will come as part of simple config, so I don't think we need to specify that manually.

**TSC Question:** Given that we don't have RFCs for other ideas in this thread, can we publish the four items as our official roadmap and then add to it whenever we have an approved RFC with a team member dedicated to implementing it?

* @nzakas also suggests adding converting `master` to `main` across all repositories to the roadmap.
* @nzakas created https://github.com/orgs/eslint/projects/1 to track the roadmap and will make it public after writing a blog post to announce the roadmap.
* :+1: from @mdjermanovic, @kaicataldo, @btmills

**Resolution**: The roadmap is approved with those five items, and @nzakas will write the blog post announcement.

### [Rule Schema Semver Policy](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/198#issuecomment-667717608)

> @mdjermanovic:
> It would be nice to define semver policy for bug fixes in rule schemas, specifically for those fixes that can cause schema validation errors in existing configs (if the rule was misconfigured in user's config, but the schema was incorrect/incomplete and didn't catch that).
>
> ref eslint/eslint#13166
>
> Additionally, and if the decision is to treat these as semver-major changes, should we revert eslint/eslint#13166.

* Our [existing semver policy](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/#semantic-versioning-policy) does not explicitly mention rule schemas.
* It does classify "A bug fix in a rule that results in ESLint reporting more errors" as semver-minor, but unlike lint errors, schema errors immediately exit the lint run with an error.
* @nzakas suggests replacing "more errors" with "more linting errors". :+1: from @kaicataldo, @btmills, and @mdjermanovic
* @nzakas proposes adding a semver-major bullet for "any bug fix that could cause ESLint to crash" or "...could result in a config validation error".
* @btmills draws a distinction between bug fixes producing more linting errors, where the fix involves changing code, and schema bug fixes erroring the build, where the fix involves changing project configuration, which is normally only expected during major version upgrades and agrees that schema changes should be semver-major.
* @kaicataldo feels that changes that will cause the linter not to complete linting successfully are breaking changes, differentiating between linting errors and early-exit errors.
* @nzakas suggests that the existing semver-major category for "Part of the public API is removed or changed in an incompatible way" could include rule schemas as well as removing existing rules, changes to the Node.js API, and removing command line flags, for example.
* :+1: to @nzakas's public API proposal from @btmills, @mdjermanovic, and @kaicataldo.
* Since rule schema changes that cause additional errors are semver-major under this new policy, we need to revert eslint/eslint#13166.
* It was merged into a prior minor version, and we currently lack the infrastructure to update old release lines, so @nzakas proposes reverting it for the next release. :+1: from @kaicataldo, @mdjermanovic, and @btmills.

**Resolution**: 1) Update the semver-minor rule bug fix policy to say "more linting errors". 2) @nzakas will open [a pull request](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/13563) adding rule schemas as an example of public API, for which incompatible changes are semver-major. 3) @kaicataldo will revert eslint/eslint#13166 for the next release.


### [Acceptable Donations Policy](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/198#issuecomment-669399350)

> @nzakas:
> Agenda item: Let's discuss what types of companies and organizations we want to accept donations from. For example, we probably don't want to accept donations from any of the following:
>
> 1. Online gambling sites
> 2. Political groups
> 3. Groups related to sex work
> 4. Hate groups
>
> It would be good to get this documented, as it might help us avoid needing to refund and block groups on Open Collective.

* @kaicataldo wants to define whether "political" would include, for example, mask manufacturers.
* @nzakas clarifies "political" meaning "the sole purpose of the group existing is to participate in politics" with presidential campaigns and PACs as examples.
* @btmills suggests leaving discretion on an individual basis for cases that don't cleanly fit the categories.
* @nzakas clarifies that the policy does not need to be exhaustive but just seeks to be upfront.
* No additional categories were suggested.
* We can cover specific wording changes in the pull request.
* :+1: from @kaicataldo, @mdjermanovic, and @btmills.

**Resolution**: The above categories are accepted, and @nzakas will follow up with a pull request to workshop specific wording.

### [Scheduled release for August 14th, 2020](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13548)

* @kaicataldo will revert eslint/eslint#13166 before doing the release.
* @btmills plans to release `eslint-plugin-markdown@2.0.0-rc.0`.
* @nzakas plans to finish [setting up Ethical Ads](https://github.com/eslint/website/pull/766) for the website.
