# 2023-06-01 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2023-06-01-transcript.md`](2023-06-01-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics


### [Bug: Documentation licensed under non-OSS compatible license](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/17225)

**TSC Summary:** This issue outlines the steps needed to fix our documentation license issue.

**TSC Question:** What is the plan for making these changes? Should it be done before, with, or after the release?

**Resolution:** We've agreed to hold off on making these changes until after the release. We'll merge those first thing once the release issue is closed


### [fix: Config with `ignores` and without `files` should not always apply](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/17181)

> @nzakas: You're saying that the published version didn't contain the fix?
> @mdjermanovic: Yes, I believe the published config-array v0.11.9 is not okay, I'll double check but it looks the same as v0.11.7

**Resolution:** @nzakas will push a new version with the fix


### [Bug: [flat config] Global `ignores` matches differently from non-global `ignores`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/17213)

`foo/` ignores a directory in a config object without `files`, but doesn't ignore files in the `foo` directory if `files` is present.

> @mdjermanovic: Logically, when checking whether `path/to/file` is ignored, we should check if either of `path/`, `path/to/` or `path/to/file` is ignored by matching the patterns. At the first glance, that doesn't seem overly complex to implement, unless the concern is performance. If the performance is a concern, then there should be some caching, and in that case it is much more complex.

> @nzakas: Well, it tries to be smart about what it checks when. So first it checks all of the globally ignored directories and bails out if any of those are true. Only if it passes that does it then go on to check the specific ignores related to files.

> @mdjermanovic: Global ignores and ignores per config object could work the same, and use the same code, if not for caching

> @nzakas: They could work the same, I'm just concerned about the tradeoffs here. One way or another it's a significant refactoring that could have a performance impact. The way we check directories is actually to crawl back up the file path and check every level. That's an acceptable tradeoff for global ignores because the results can be cached and reused for every config object.

> @mdjermanovic: Yes, if we want a better performance, for non-global ignores we would have to cache ignored directories per config object

> @nzakas: Right, and to me this feels like too much complexity when we can just say "use ** in ignores with files" and be done with it. There's already a way to get the desired behavior, so this doesn't seem worth all of the extra work.

> @mdjermanovic: Each config object with ignores  `({ files: ..., ignores: ..., rules: ... })` would need to have its own cache of ignored directories. I'm not in favor of changing the original patterns, that looks confusing. I would be in favor of saying that non-global ignores can match only files, but without modifying patterns (appending `**` to `foo/`)

**Resolution:** We've agreed to not make any code changes and instead update the documentation to explicitly mention that non-global ignores can only match files and so patterns like foo/ will not ignore anything.


### Scheduled release for June 2nd, 2023

**Action Items:** @mdjermanovic will release `eslint` and `@eslint/js`.