# 2023-07-27 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2023-07-27-transcript.md`](2023-07-27-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### [feat: [logical-assignment-operators] flag a few more situations](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/17322)

> @mdjermanovic: Looks like this one should be closed? As we all agree that the proposed checks don't belong to this rule.

> @nzakas Sounds good, we can close it.

### [feat: Implement SourceCode#applyInlineConfig()](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/17351)

> @nzakas: When you have a chunk of time for reviews, please take a look at this?

> @mdjermanovic: I was planning to review that one for this release, but didn't manage to. I'm not sure if I'll be able tomorrow but will take a look as soon as possible

> @nzakas: No rush. I'd rather we take our time with big changes anyway.

> @mdjermanovic: Yes, that's a big change, I wanted to allocate more time for the review.

**Action Items:** @mdjermanovic will review when he has enough time to review this big change.

### Misc

> @nzakas: To review some other things that are going on:
> 1) I submitted a bunch of pull requests to start adding PRs to the triage board when they come in. We mentioned that a while back and I kind of forgot to do it.
> 2) Because we've finished with the new  SourceCode methods, we're in a good spot to start v9 planning. I set up a new v9 board and team members should feel free to add issues and PRs to the "Needs Discussion" column so we can track what we'd like to get in. When you're back from your travels we can go through those and see which ones we want to include.
> 3) We've merged PRs for all of our published packages that use release-please to generate provenance when they're released. That excludes the packages in the eslint repo because we're still using Jenkins for those and also there is zero documentation on how to generate provenance outside of GitHub Actions.

### Scheduled release for July 27th, 2023

**Action Items:** @nzakas will handle the release:
* `eslint-visitor-keys`
* `eslint-scope`
* `generator-eslint`
* `@eslint/eslintrc`
* `@eslint/create-config`
* `eslint-transforms`
* `eslint-plugin-markdown`
* `@eslint/js`
* `eslint-config-eslint`
* `eslint`
