# 2023-01-26 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2023-01-26-transcript.md`](2023-01-26-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [feat: ESLint Language Plugins](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/99#issuecomment-1404212778)

> @nzakas:
>
> **TSC Summary:** This RFC currently expects languages to provide their own matching engine similar to `esquery` and only JavaScript would use `esquery`.
>
>**TSC Questions:**
>
> 1. Should we say that languages must implement a CSS selector syntax for their selectors? This would require an `esquery`-like interface to work correctly.
> 2. If yes to 1, should we try to make a generic `esquery` that could be used across all languages as part of the core experience for languages in ESLint?

* @mdjermanovic suggests plugins providing their own `NodeEventGenerator` as a generic solution, but @nzakas isn't sure `NodeEventGenerator` would be part of core in the rewrite and would like something that would work regardless of internal structure.
* @mdjermanovic says `esquery`'s support for custom visitor keys makes it mostly generic to any AST with `type` on nodes.
* @btmills suggests starting with just node name support if adapting `esquery` is too challenging.
* @nzakas researched adapting `esquery` by updating the PEGjs grammar and making node properties configurable.
* @mdjermanovic and @btmills are on board if the work proves feasible.

**Resolution:** We would like to offer CSS selectors for all languages out of the box, and it would make sense to fork `esquery` for this purpose.

### [release-please](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/405#issuecomment-1404190035)

> @nzakas: Agenda item: Do we want to try using [release-please](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/release-please-action) on some of our repos to start moving off of Jenkins? I think the main `eslint` repo is still too complicated for this, but I think the others would work fine.

* @mdjermanovic and @btmills are both in favor.
* @nzakas has had positive experiences with it on [personal projects](https://github.com/humanwhocodes/env/blob/main/.github/workflows/release-please.yml).
* @mdjermanovic asks if it supports entering a 2FA code. @nzakas says it does not.
* Per @nzakas, every merged PR updates a release PR, which we merge to trigger an `npm publish` action that uses a CI npm token secret in the organization.
* @btmills volunteers to set up `release-please` on one repository.

**Resolution:** @btmills will try setting up `release-please` on one repository.

### Follow-ups

* @nzakas asks for help copying the `add-to-triage.yml` workflow to all repositories to make sure all new issues are added to the triage project. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas notes we have a bunch of active RFCs to review. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas opened "Feedback Wanted" discussions soliciting specific feedback from ESLint users and integrators without seeking specific decisions to understand use cases and requirements for the rewrite.

### Contributor Pool

* @nzakas suggests doing the contributor pool in the next meeting because there are five days left in January. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

### [ Scheduled release for January 27th, 2023](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16792)

* @btmills volunteers for the release.
* @nzakas notes it'll only be `eslint`.

**Resolution:** @btmills will release `eslint`.
