# 2023-02-23 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2023-02-23-transcript.md`](2023-02-23-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@mdjermanovic moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [feat: Add support for allowJsDoc param for "multiline-comment-style"](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/16807)

> @nzakas:
>
> **TSC Summary:** This PR seeks to add a way to opt-out of the hardcoded JSDoc comment exception in `multiline-comment-style` ([full description](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/16807#issuecomment-1417706498)). The `multiline-comment-style` rule is stylistic and frozen, meaning we won't make any further changes to the rule, but this pull request is fully implemented.
>
> **TSC Questions:**
>
> 1. Should we accept this pull request?
> 2. Should the option be named `allowJsDoc` or `allowJSDoc`?

* @mdjermanovic thinks we could accept this as a design bug.
* Since we currently have a hard-coded exception, @btmills leans toward allowing the option, whereas adding a new optional exception would have a higher bar.

**Resolution:** Accept the pull request.

### [chore: Set up release-please](https://github.com/eslint/generator-eslint/pull/144)

* @btmills opened this pull request setting up `release-please` for `generator-eslint` and would like to know whether we should try it there for a while first or go ahead and add it to another repository. `generator-eslint` sees few changes, so opting to wait could take a while.
* @btmills proposes doing one successful release of `generator-eslint` with `release-please` then replicating the setup on `@eslint/create-config` or `@eslint/eslintrc`.
* @mdjermanovic is in favor of releasing `generator-eslint` once then replicating the setup on `@eslint/create-config` to try it more there.

**Resolution:** After demonstrating `release-please` successfully on `generator-eslint`, use it on `@eslint/create-config`.

### [Scheduled release for February 24th, 2023](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16891)

* @mdjermanovic and @btmills are both available, and @btmills will do the release on Saturday.
* `@eslint/eslintrc`, `@eslint/js`, and `eslint` all need to be released.
* `@eslint/js` [will need to be released twice](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/16844#issuecomment-1439179314) to maintain lockstep versioning with `eslint`.
* Like with `eslint-config-eslint`, we're able to specify a minor version bump of `@eslint/js` when starting the release.
* The `@eslint/eslintrc` upgrade requires a small change in `eslint.config.js`, and @mdjermanovic will prepare a draft PR for that.
* The order should be:
    1. Release `@eslint/eslintrc`.
    2. Bump the `@eslint/eslintrc` dependency.
    3. Minor release `@eslint/js` to 8.34.0.
    4. Minor release `@eslint/js` to 8.35.0.
    5. Bump the `@eslint/js` dependency.
    6. Release `eslint`.
* @btmills can release `generator-eslint` off-cycle whenever it's ready.

**Resolution:** @btmills will release `@eslint/eslintrc`, `@eslint/js`, and `eslint`.
