# 2023-11-30 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2023-11-30-transcript.md`](2023-11-30-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### [v9.0.0 Status](https://github.com/orgs/eslint/projects/4/views/2) 

| Feature | Status | Notes |
| ------- | -- | -- |
| [Change Request: Drop Node v12/v14/v16/v17/v19 support](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/17595) | PR is ready for merge | @nzakas and @mdjermanovic will set status to ready for merge |
| [Change Request: Remove all formatters except stylish, html, json, and json-with-meta](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/17524) | Waiting on the last remaining changes from @mdjermanovic | |
| [Change default rule schema to `schema: []` and drop support for function-style rules](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14709) | @mdjermanovic opened [draft PR](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/17792) | |
| [Change Request: stop running rules set to "warn" when `--quiet` is used](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16450) | Close to done; just making final changes. | |
| [Omiting any file/dir positional parameter to CLI does not give an error](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14308) | Implementing | @mdjermanovic will review soon |
| [Implement Language Plugins](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16999) | [eslint/eslint#17698](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/17698) is ready for review, but we can't merge until [eslint-community/eslint-plugin-n#143](https://github.com/eslint-community/eslint-plugin-n/issues/143) is complete.  | |
| [Implement Flat Config](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13481) | **Blocked** | Blocked by work left on getting the rule tests switched over to use `FlatRuleTester`. Once that's merged, @nzakas will start on the docs. Also, we won't rename files in this PR. It will be handle separately. |
| [Change Request: Remove deprecated context pass-through SourceCode methods](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/17520) | This one will be ready along with the language plugins issue because it's all in the same PR | |
| [Change Request: Enable `reportUnusedDisableDirectives` config option by default](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15466) | Waiting on @bmish to finish up the [PR (draft)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/17212) | |

### [Contributor Pool for November](https://github.com/issues?q=org%3Aeslint+label%3A%22contributor+pool%22+merged%3A2023-11-01..2023-11-30)

* `$100` @ild0tt0re for [feat: for-direction rule add check for condition in reverse order](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/17755) 
* `$300` @That_Guy997 for Contributions to [help](https://discord.com/channels/688543509199716507/1059928426217209896)

### Scheduled release for December 1st, 2023

**Action Items:** @mdjermanovic will release the following:
* `eslint`
* `@eslint/js`
* `@eslint/eslintrc`


