# 2023-02-09 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2023-02-09-transcript.md`](2023-02-09-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [Bug: [flat config] Caching is not supported when parser is an object](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16875)

> @nzakas:
>
> **TSC Summary:** We haven't yet implemented caching for object parsers or processors. To do this, we need a way to identify these objects uniquely. The proposal is to ask parsers to implement some identifying properties, such as:
>
> ```js
> parser = {
>    meta: {
>        name: "foo",
>        version: "1.1.1",
>    }
> };
> ```
>
> **TSC Question:** How do we want to identify object parsers and processors for caching?

* @mdjermanovic and @btmills ask whether `meta` is anything JSON-serializable or `name` and `version` are specific.
* @nzakas envisions the cache key being `name@version`.
* @btmills notes that users doing runtime customization outside of `languageOptions` or `processorOptions` could add a suffix to either field.
* @mdjermanovic and @btmills are both in favor.

**Resolution:** In support of the proposal.

### [Change Request: Option to allow config fallback](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16828)

> @nzakas:
>
> **TSC Summary:** This proposal asks for a `defaultConfigFile` option to the API (`ESLint`/`FlatESLint`) that would allow an API user to specify a default config file to use if none is found through the normal lookup. 
>
> **TSC Question:** Do we want to accept this proposal?

* @mdjermanovic notes we don't generally support globally-installed ESLint but wouldn't mind adding this option.
* @nzakas clarifies this would only be an API option, not part of the CLI.
* @btmills is in favor.
* @nzakas asks if this requires an RFC. @mdjermanovic and @btmills agree it does.

**Resolution:** Accept the proposal and require an RFC.

### [Consider using Renovate](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15726)

> @nzakas:
>
> **TSC Summary:** This issue proposes setting up Renovate on ESLint repos. Renovate prefers to pin all dependencies and send pull requests to update each dependency individually. It can be a bit noisy, but it would ensure that we are regularly updating dependencies, which is something we don't do very well right now.
>
> **TSC Agenda:** Should we enable Renovate on the org?

* @mdjermanovic and @btmills would rather not pin dependency versions. Renovate [advises against it](https://docs.renovatebot.com/dependency-pinning/#ranges-for-libraries) for libraries.
* @nzakas doesn't feel strongly about pinning.
* @btmills and @mdjermanovic agree with enabling Renovate.
* @btmills volunteers to set up Renovate after release-please.

**Resolution:** Enable Renovate without pinning dependencies.

### [Change Request: Bundle before publishing](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16820)

> @nzakas:
>
> **TSC Summary:** This issue proposes that we bundle part or all of our JavaScript files upon publishing of each version. Doing so would 1) speed up startup time by reducing file system access and 2) make it easier to create a Rust CLI wrapper around ESLint. My suggestion is to bundle `api.js` without external dependencies and publish that during the release while also adding a process to bundle the entire CLI, including external dependencies, into one file to ease the Rust CLI development.
>
> **TSC Question:** Do we want to accept this proposal?

* @btmills sees a slight performance bump being a bigger benefit than supporting live editing `node_modules`.
* @mdjermanovic clarifies whether `cli.js` would use the bundled `api.js`, and @nzakas confirms that would be a starting point.
* @nzakas sees build time complexity as the main drawback, but enough libraries do it that it's clearly tolerable.
* @mdjermanovic is in favor of trying it.
* @nzakas will ping Bartek about implementing this.

**Resolution:** Accept the proposal.

### [Speeding up the JavaScript ecosystem](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/408#issuecomment-1421458536)

> @nzakas: Let's discuss https://marvinh.dev/blog/speeding-up-javascript-ecosystem-part-3/ and what are the immediate next steps. There is already a [PR](https://github.com/estools/esquery/pull/134) implementing the changes mentioned, so this might be a good time to discuss formally forking esquery and incorporating those changes.

* Everyone has read the article.
* @mdjermanovic volunteers to open an issue to discuss suggestions and define tasks.

**Resolution:** Continue discussion on the issue.

### [Surveying ESLint users](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/408#issuecomment-1421504650)

> @nzakas: With regards to the rewrite, it might be helpful to put together a survey to gather more information from ESLint users. Especially as it seems fewer and fewer people are using Espree as their parser and there are a lot of questions over ESM vs. CJS, it might be good to get some actual data to make decisions.

* :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas volunteers to put together a draft survey to share with everyone.

**Resolution:** @nzakas will draft the survey.

### [Team availability](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/408#issuecomment-1421458536)

> @nzakas: We're once again in a situation where issues and PRs are piling up. Let's talk about how things are working right now and where the holdups are. It might also be time to regularly estimate how much time we have to give to ESLint over each two week period so we know when coverage will be tight.

* @nzakas doesn't want long response times to deter new contributors.
* @nzakas suggests checking in on upcoming availability at each meeting. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* All agree on priority order:
	1. RFC reviews
	2. PR reviews
	3. Implementation
	4. Issue triage
	5. Discussion reviews
* Joel and Samuel helping with 4 and 5 will help with the front of the funnel, so @nzakas suggests focusing on the "Ready for Dev Team" column in the triage board rather than "Needs Triage" now. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution:** Check in on upcoming availability at each meeting and focus on "Ready for Dev Team".

### [Contributor pool](https://github.com/issues?q=org%3Aeslint+label%3A%22contributor+pool%22+merged%3A%3E%3D2023-01-01+merged%3A%3C2022-02-01+)

* @nzakas suggests $100 each to gfyoung, Tanujkanti4441, sosukesuzuki, and fasttime. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution:** @nzakas will reach out to award $100 to gfyoung, Tanujkanti4441, sosukesuzuki, and fasttime.

### [Scheduled release for February 10th, 2023](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16843)

* @mdjermanovic volunteers for the release.
* Only `eslint` needs a release.

**Resolution:** @mdjermanovic will release `eslint`.
