# 2023-06-29 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2023-06-29-transcript.md`](2023-06-29-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### [Where we are on the integration with outside plugins/configs listed on this issue?](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13481)

> @nzakas: On my end, I've opened PRs for each of the projects. None have been merged yet.

Status:
- [x] `eslint-plugin-n` now provides flat config exports
- [ ] `typescript-eslint` PR opened; waiting for Nx to get updated to use flat config
- [ ] `eslint-config-standard` PR opened
- [ ] `eslint-plugin-vue` PR opened
- [ ] `eslint-plugin-react` PR to be submitted by @mdjermanovic
- [ ] `eslint-plugin-import` Issue has been  [opened](https://github.com/import-js/eslint-plugin-import/issues/2556) and accepted. PR to be submitted by @mdjermanovic
- [ ] `eslint-config-airbnb` @mdjermanovic will start a discussion in [this](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript/issues/2699) issue to figure out whether we should switch the main export to a flat config or provide an additional export to the flat config.
- [x] `eslint-config-eslint` ESLint config to load external configs/plugins without FlatCompat is done

> @nzakas  think the only thing we can start doing in phase 4 is the blog post to encourage people to start switching over and explain the rollout plan. At a higher level, I'd like to get phase 2 of the language plugins tasks completed before we release ESLint v9 (with flat config as the default). I'm hopeful I'll be able to do that in July.

**Action Items:** 
* @mdjermanovic will create pull requests for `eslint-plugin-react` and `eslint-plugin-import`
* @mdjermanovic will start a discussion with the AirBnB team on `eslint-config-airbnb` options


### Let's discuss where we are with the release-please rollout

Are all repos aside from eslint/eslint now switched over? This is the status:

- [x] `eslintrc`
- [x] `espree`
- [x] `create-config`
- [x] `eslint-visitor-keys`
- [x] `generator-eslint`
- [x] `eslint-scope`
- [x] `eslint-transforms`
- [x] `eslint-plugin-markdown`

**Action Items:** The Jenkins jobs have not been deleted and @mdjermanovic will move them into the `obsolete` folder as a backup.


### Scheduled release for June 30th, 2023

**Action Items:** @mdjermanovic will release the following:
* `espree` with the new syntax support (regex v flag) so that it will be easier to work on rules
* `@eslint/eslintrc`
* `@eslint/js`
* `eslint`
* `eslint-config-eslint`