# 2023-03-09 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript


## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### [feat: ESLint Language Plugins #99](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/99)

> @nzakas:
>
> **TSC Summary:** The language plugins RFC is now complete, which gives ESLint the ability to lint other file types besides JavaScript..
>
> **TSC Questions:**
>
> 1. Shall we move to final commenting?

**Resolution:** We decided to move the RFC to the Final Commenting phase.


### `release-please` rollout for the rest of the repos
**Summary:** We've now implemented release-please for generator-eslint and @eslint/create-config. Shall we roll out to other repos now as well?

**Resolution:** resolved in the previous meeting.

### Documentation-specific License
**Summary:** We don't currently have a documentation-specific license, so it defaults to all rights reserved. 

> @nkzakas:
>
> Agenda item: We don't currently have a documentation-specific license, so it defaults to all rights reserved. I'd like to propose we license the documentation as [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).


**Resolution:** Okay, we've agreed to license the docs under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License. We will place a notice both in the docs README and in the footer of the docs site. @Sam3k can you please create an issue for that?


### [Scheduled release for March 10th, 2023](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16945)

> @mdjermanovic:
> We'll have `espree`, `@eslint/eslintrc` (to update espree dependency), `@eslint/js` to match `eslint`, and `eslint` of course

> @nzakas:
>
> Once we release espree I can finalize the changes to allow for serializing configs. And that may, in fact, be the last thing needed for flat config to move on to the next phase.

**Resolution:** `espree` and `@eslint/eslintrc` will be deployed either on March 10th, 2023 or March 11th, 2023.
