# 2023-05-04 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2023-05-04-transcript.md`](2023-05-04-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics


### [feat: Add findConfigFile() method to FlatESLint](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/17142)

Should `FlatESLint#findConfigFile()` method throw an error?

**Resolution:** `FlatESLint#findConfigFile()` should not throw an error when it can't find `eslint.config.js` file. Instead it should return `undefined`.

**Action Item:** @mdjermanovic will open an issue to track this.


### [feat: skip warnings cli flag](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/104)

**Action Item:** @mdjermanovic will take a look over the weekend.


### [feat: parsing session objects](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/102)

**Resolution:** we've agreed to close the RFC.

**Action Item:** @nzakas will write a comment in the RFC and close it.


### [feat: Rule Performance Dashboard](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/108)

**Action Item:** @mdjermanovic will take a look over the weekend.


### Additional triage board fields

Shall we add some additional fields to the triage board for priority and impact:

* **Priority options:** P1, P2, P3, P4, P5
* **Impact options:** Low, Medium, High

**Resolution:** we've agreed to add those fields.

**Action Item:** @nzakas will add the fields and update the documentation.


### Do we want to add PRs to the to the triage board?

Should we rename "Pull Request Opened" to "Implementing"?

> @nzakas My problem is I tend to miss PRs because I spend so much time in the Triage board. To get the PRs, I then need to switch over to Notifications. I figured if we just added all PRs to the Triage board, it would limit the page switches needed to keep track of everything.

**Resolution:** we have agreed to add PRs to the Triage board. 

**Action Item:** @nzakas will take the action item to get that set up and update the docs too.


### Check on core contributors time allocation status
> @nzakas As a follow up from last time: we discussed spending 25% of our time on coding. Looking over my hours for April, I had 12.75 hours of total time and 4 hours of programming time, so it looks like I hit that 25% mark. (Significantly lower than usual due to moving.)

> @mdjermanovic Yes, only 15% in April


### Scheduled release for May 5th, 2023

> @nzakas It looks like you're setting up release-please in a couple other repos now

> @mdjermanovic Yes, I tried to set up those that are going to be released tomorrow

**Action Items:** 
* @mdjermanovic will do the release 
* @nzakas will review the work @mdjermanovic has been doing setting up release-please in some of the repos
