# 10/06/2022 ESLint TSC Meeting Transcript

**mdjermanovic:** Hi!

**btmills:** Hello!

**nzakas:** Howdy!

**nzakas:** Looks like we are ready to go. @btmills can you take notes?

**btmills:** yep!

**nzakas:** Thanks!

**nzakas:** Looks like we don't have anything tagged for today. Is there anything anyone wants to discuss?

**mdjermanovic:** Nothing in particular from me

**nzakas:** @btmills ?

**btmills:** nope

**nzakas:** Okay, then I'll just do some quick updates.

**nzakas:** We have the final eslint-community logo. I've already updated the GitHub org to use it. Hayden gave us a few alternatives that we can use wherever appropriate.

**nzakas:** 

**nzakas:** Now that we have that, we'll likely do a blog post soonish to do the formal announcement.
 * 🎉 @MichaelDeBoey, @mdjermanovic
 * 🚢 @MichaelDeBoey, @btmills

**nzakas:** We also had @bpmutter starting on the tech writing project. He's all set up with a tracking issue and starting with some smaller tasks to get some familiarity with the project before digging into the more complex pieces.

**btmills:** it's exciting seeing him getting up to speed already!
 * 👍 @nzakas, @mdjermanovic

**nzakas:** And a personal update: still dealing with a strong bout of fatigue, which is why I haven't been around as much. Will continue to do what I can as I can until it passes.

**nzakas:** So let's move on to contributor pool. Looks like we have some candidates:

**nzakas:** https://github.com/issues?q=org%3Aeslint+label%3A%22contributor+pool%22+merged%3A%22%3E%3D2022-09-01%22

**nzakas:** Did we miss anything that isn't on this list?

**btmills:** nschonni has a handful of individually smaller docs PRs that in aggregate might be worth recognizing
 * 👍 @nzakas, @mdjermanovic

**nzakas:** Okay, then I think we have everyone.

**nzakas:** I propose:

**nzakas:** sosukesuzuki $200

**nzakas:** dmartens $200

**nzakas:** ZLY201 $100

**nzakas:** nschonni $150

**btmills:** 👍

**mdjermanovic:** I'd propose $300 for dmartens
 * 👍 @nzakas, @btmills

**mdjermanovic:** There was a lot of work on the new rule

**nzakas:** Works for me

**mdjermanovic:** And I agree with others

**nzakas:** Okay, I'll let them know.

**nzakas:** Let's talk this week's release

**mdjermanovic:** I can tomorrow
 * 👍 @nzakas, @btmills

**mdjermanovic:** @btmills there are a few suggestions about updating docs and jsdoc on this PR. Shall we address that in a follow-up? Otherwise, I think it's ready to merge. https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/16348

**btmills:** I'll go ahead and do that in this PR. I'll see if I can do that this evening so it can be merged for tomorrow's release

**mdjermanovic:** Thanks!

**mdjermanovic:** This week I think we have only `eslint` for release

**nzakas:** I need to update the README on eslintrc: https://github.com/eslint/eslintrc/pull/92

**nzakas:** I'll fix this PR so it's ready

**nzakas:** Need to get it off my plate finally.

**mdjermanovic:** Shall we release `eslintrc` too, to update README on npm?

**nzakas:** Yes please
 * 👍 @mdjermanovic

**mdjermanovic:** Okay, then `eslintrc` and `eslint`

**nzakas:** Thanks

**nzakas:** I think that's all for today! As a reminder, please be sure to check Discord once a day Monday-Friday so we can keep things moving and grooving. 🙂
 * 👍 @btmills, @mdjermanovic

**mdjermanovic:** Thanks!

**btmills:** 👋 later!

**nzakas:** Bye, take care!
