# 2022-04-07 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-04-07-transcript.md`](2022-04-07-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [Please export `TokenTranslator` for reusing outside for ESLint plugins](https://github.com/eslint/espree/issues/542)

**TSC Summary:** This issue proposes exporting the internal TokenTranslator class that we use to translate Acorn tokens into Espree tokens. 

**TSC Question:** Do we want to export this class?

* @mdjermanovic doesn't want to expose Acorn through this internal utility as part of the public API.
* @btmills suggests extracting to a separate module.
* @mdjermanovic suggests copy & paste.
* @nzakas would prefer a module over exposing as part of the API but doesn't feel it's worth the overhead.
* @btmills is fine with copy & paste. :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @nzakas.

**Resolution:** We won't export `TokenTranslator` from Espree.

### [feat: add rule test deprecation warnings: fn-style rules/missing schema](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15761)

* This adds deprecation warnings for an approved and merged RFC.
* @mdjermanovic asks if we're planning to implement the changes in v9 so that we can merge this now.
* Even though we haven't formally decided what changes will go in v9, @nzakas says we can assume the RFC's changes will be included.
* @btmills notes there's plenty of time, and even if the RFC's implementation slips to v10, the recommended changes are compatible today.
* @nzakas, @mdjermanovic, and @btmills are all :+1: to merging this PR with deprecation warnings when it's ready.

**Resolution:** We will merge this PR once approved.

### [feat: Fix suggestion for "no-template-curly-in-string"](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15574)

* Per @mdjermanovic, this issue is stalled on the question whether we want to use a parser in rules.
* @btmills clarifies that we must either use a parser to confirm validity or cannot provide suggestions for this rule.
* @nzakas thinks it's not worth jumping through hoops to provide suggestions, which should be something that can be done easily. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution:** We will not provide suggestions for this rule.

### [Website redesign update](https://new.eslint.org/)

* The Playground is working at https://play.eslint.org/!
* There are a few outstanding issues for theming, message color accessibility, and a way to remove rules from configuration.
* We merged the first PR to move the docs for the new site, and tweaks will continue after the next release.
* We shipped https://es.eslint.org/, validating the marketing site translation plan!
* Translations for docs.eslint.org still need a plan.

### Contributor pool

* @nzakas nominates Kepeniukas and JackNapis for Discord help. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas nominates luifermon for es.eslint.org translation. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @mdjermanovic nominates captbaritone for [feat: Catch more cases in no-constant-condition](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15613). :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.
* @mdjermanovic nominates Zzzen for [feat: `valid-typeof`: always ban `undefined`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15635). :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.
* @mdjermanovic nominates mahozad for [feat: Add favicon to the HTML document](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15671).
	* @nzakas asks if this is non-trivial.
	* @mdjermanovic thinks it was, including the work and the idea.
	* :+1: from @nzakas and @btmills.
* @nzakas proposes $300 for luifermon's translation work and $100 for everyone else. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution:** Award $300 to luifermon and $100 to Kepeniukas, JackNapis, captbaritone, Zzzen, and mahozad.

### [Scheduled release for April 8th, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15738)

* @mdjermanovic volunteers for the release.
* It will only include ESLint this time.

**Resolution:** @mdjermanovic will release `eslint`.
