# 2022-09-22 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-09-22-transcript.md`](2022-09-22-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [eslint-community](https://github.com/eslint-community) update

* @MichaelDeBoey is getting the organization up and running.
* @nzakas set up the npm bot for publishes.
* Hayden has been working on logos.
	* All prefer "**ESLint** Community" lettering with ESLint bolded.
	* There are three logo variations, and Hayden will combine those with the preferred lettering options for @nzakas to share as mockups.

### Documentation update

* Ben Perlmutter is our technical writer! @nzakas is setting up a kickoff meeting next week.
* @nzakas mentions Ben has experience with translation services, which might be useful for an alternative approach to the Chinese docs.

### Flat config update

* @nzakas feels the rollout has gone smoothly, and bugs have been around edges rather than core compatibility.
* This has revealed tests weren't covering all eslintrc behavior accurately.
* @mdjermanovic has concerns around the glob library's ignore option and suggests implementing ignore filtering in `FlatESLint`.
	* @nzakas says it's needed to avoid traversing `node_modules` and has a workaround for the lack of negated ignore pattern support.
	* @mdjermanovic observed globby crashing while experimenting with disallowed directory access.
	* @nzakas suggests moving discussion to an issue.
	* @nzakas feels that file globbing is a solved problem and we shouldn't own a custom utility like `FileEnumerator`.
* @btmills is curious how many people are trying the new config system.
	* Based on issues like https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16302, @nzakas thinks a number of early adopters are trying it.

### [Scheduled release for September 23rd, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16303)

* @mdjermanovic volunteers for the release.
* Only `eslint` needs to be released.

**Resolution:** @mdjermanovic will release `eslint`.
