# 2022-01-13 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-01-13-transcript.md`](2022-01-13-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [Bug: "use strict" should not trigger strict mode in ES3](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15456)

**TSC Summary**: A bug in Acorn caused `"use strict";` to put the parser into strict mode even if `ecmaVersion` was 3. That bug has now been fixed in Acorn.

**TSC Question**: Do we feel that this is a breaking change for ESLint?

* This is a bug fix that reports fewer errors, which we usually treat as semver-patch.
* One user has been relying on the buggy behavior to lint code that works in both ES3 and ES5.
* The recommended approach for that would be to do a matrix lint with `--parser-options=ecmaVersion:3` and `--parser-options=ecmaVersion:5`.
* @nzakas and @btmills agree that we can fix this in a patch release.
* @btmills will update the issue and mention mention that forking Acorn would be the only way to preserve the existing behavior.
* @nzakas wouldn't be in favor of an option to force strict mode in ES3.

**Resolution**: We can fix this bug in a patch release.

### Website update

* The marketing site is almost done, with just a couple UI issues like ad formatting remaining.
* The dark theme will sync with the OS's preference.
* Sara is working on docs, which should go quickly thanks to similar formatting across pages.
* We still need to figure out how to split the site while sharing partials/includes/etc., but @nzakas and @btmills are fine waiting to figure that out.
* @nzakas hopes to do a preview launch by the end of the month to request feedback on new.eslint.org while leaving eslint.org in place.

### December contributor awards

* @btmills nominates Yash-Singh1 for [feat: Suggestions support for `prefer-regex-literals`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15077). :+1: from @nzakas.
* @nzakas nominates JackNapis and Kepeniukas for Discord help. :+1: from @btmills.
* @btmills nominates stephenwade for [chore: Update blog post frontmatter part 1 - layouts and authors](https://github.com/eslint/website/pull/895). :+1: from @nzakas, who also cites Discord help.
* @nzakas suggests $100 each. :+1: from @btmills.

**Resolution**: @nzakas will reach out Yash-Sing1, JackNapis, Kepeniukas, and stephenwade with $100 awards for each.

### [Scheduled release for January 14th, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15482)

* @btmills is able to do the release.
* @nzakas suggests waiting until the next release to upgrade Acorn.

**Resolution**: @btmills will do the release.
