# 2022-03-10 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-03-10-transcript.md`](2022-03-10-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [Website redesign update](https://new.eslint.org/)

* The homepage animation may be merged as soon as today.
* @nzakas is working on a way to translate the marketing site easily using data files and has a prototype.
* Nitin is porting the demo to play.eslint.org.
* @nzakas hopes to roll out the Playground first, then the docs site, then the marketing site to gradually migrate from the current eslint.org.
* Once play.eslint.org is live, @nzakas will start incorporating the new docs site into the eslint repository immediately after a patch release decision to have almost two weeks before the next release.
* Once the site is setup to build and deploy from the eslint repository, formatting all of the rules docs will be parallelizable.

### [Flat config](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13481)

* @nzakas is making progress and keeps opening issues for edge cases where the current `ESLint` class tests may not apply with flat config.
* @nzakas is currently working through ignores.
* Only 79 failing tests remain.

### [Scheduled release for March 11th, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15655)

* @mdjermanovic volunteers for the release.
* `@eslint/eslintrc` and `eslint` will both be released.

**Resolution:** @mdjermanovic will release `@eslint/eslintrc` and `eslint`.
