# 2022-02-24 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-02-24-transcript.md`](2022-02-24-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [Change Request: Config to Disallow Disable](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15631)

**TSC Summary:** This issue proposes adding a way for fine-grained disabling of inline directives on a per-rule basis. We currently have `noInlineConfig` that disables all inline configuration, but this request is for configuring based on rule name, so you could allow inline configuration of some rules but not others.

**TSC Question:** Do we want to support this idea and go to the next step of creating an RFC?

* @nzakas is interested but concerned about complexity.
* @mdjermanovic is supportive because workarounds are not ideal.
* @nzakas suggests an RFC to evaluate complexity of adding it to flat config but not eslintrc. :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @btmills.

**Resolution:** Ask the author to write an RFC.

### [Change Request: deprecate [no-restricted-imports] in favor of eslint-plugin-node](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15586)

**TSC Summary:** This issue requests that we deprecated `no-restricted-imports` in favor of a plugin rule. This rule doesn't currently exist in another plugin by `eslint-plugin-import` would be willing to take it if we would like to deprecate it. We have previously deprecated `no-restricted-modules` in favor of moving it into `eslint-plugin-node` as we removed CommonJS support in the core.

**TSC Question:** Do we want to deprecate `no-restricted-imports`?

* @nzakas asks if we want to start offloading core rules to plugins. `no-restricted-imports` in particular gets lots of change requests.
* @btmills would only want to move `no-restricted-imports` to a plugin if we move the other import-related rules too.
* Since nobody feels strongly about moving rules, @nzakas suggests closing the issue. We can revisit in the future. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution:** Don't deprecate `no-restricted imports` for now.

### [Rule Change: Remove no-inner-declaration from eslint:recommended](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15576)

**TSC Summary:** This issue seeks to either remove `no-inner-declaration` from `eslint:recommended` or change the default behavior of `no-inner-declaration` based on how ES6+ works with inner declarations.

**TSC Question:** Do we want to make any change now? Do we want to make any changes in the next major release?

* @mdjermanovic favors making a change in the next major release to allow block-scoped functions and prefers redesigning the options.
* @btmills favors the behavior [suggested by @mdjermanovic](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15576#issuecomment-1049823451) in the issue:

    > reporting block-level functions in:
    >
    > * non-strict code regardless of `ecmaVersion`, because they have a confusing legacy behavior.
    > * `ecmaVersion: 5` code regardless of strict, because it's either the same confusing legacy behavior or a SyntaxError in most ES5 engines.

* @nzakas doesn't want rule behavior to depend on `ecmaVersion` because it can't be counted on, especially with custom parsers, and would rather add an option like `legacy: true`.
* @nzakas summarizes 1) we should add an option to change current behavior, 2) change default in a major version, and 3) remove from `eslint:recommended` in a major version. :+1: from @btmills and @mjermanovic.

**Resolution:** Add an option to change current behavior. In a major version, change the default and remove from `eslint:recommended`.

### [Website redesign update](https://new.eslint.org/)

* The last major thing to complete on the marketing site is the homepage animation, and there's a pull request for that today.
* After that, we'll need to do spot checks and open issues/PRs for anything that's not working. Search is a known issue right now.
* Documentation is basically done, but the rollout will be complicated by checking it into the main `eslint` repository followed by a transitionary release to ensure the next release generates the new site.
* @nzakas will coordinate with the cn.eslint.org team.
* The playground site shell is done, and we need to implement it for real. @nzakas will look at that in the future if nobody else picks it up first.

### Contributor awards

* @nzakas nominates JackNapis and Kepeniukas for Discord help. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas nominates Gautam-Arora24 for [feat: Add `onlyOneSimpleParam` option to no-confusing-arrow rule](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15566). :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @btmills nominates AkashaRojee for [fix: Update blog post authors](https://github.com/eslint/website/pull/921). :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @nzakas.
* @mdjermanovic nominates Yiwei-Ding for [feat: implement rfc 2021-suppression-support](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15459), which was merged after we decided January contributor awards. :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.
* @btmills nominates codeworrior for [fix: Derive espree.Syntax from espree.VisitorKeys](https://github.com/eslint/espree/pull/532). :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @nzakas.
* @nzakas suggests $250 for Yiwei-Ding and $100 for the rest. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution:** @nzakas will reach out and award $250 to Yiwei-Ding and $100 each to JackNapis, Kepeniukas, Gautam-Arora24, AkashaRojee, and codeworrior.

### [Scheduled release for February 25th, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15608)

* @mdjermanovic volunteers for the release.
* It will include `@eslint/eslintrc` if [fix: Avoid dirname for built-in configs.](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15616) is merged in time.

**Resolution:** @mdjermanovic will release `eslint` and, if necessary, `@eslint/eslintrc`.
