# 2022-09-08 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-09-08-transcript.md`](2022-09-08-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [Bug: [new config system] globs are ignoring dot files](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16265)

> @nzakas:
>
> **TSC Summary:** Flat config was originally designed to include dot files by default when using glob patterns on the command line. The current behavior is that it doesnâ€™t include dot files.
>
> **TSC Question:** Should we keep the current behavior? Shell expansion for terminals typically does not include dot files, so we are only able to change for quotes globs passed to ESLint, so would it be too confusing to have a different behavior between the two?

* @btmills believes users would expect globs to match `.eslintrc` behavior and shell expansions and asks if the only reason to include dot files was because the RFC was written that way.
* @nzakas agrees and looked back for an answer but could only come up with a simplification motivation.

**Resolution**: Flat config glob patterns will _not_ match dot files.

### [Check Discord messages daily](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/376)

> @nzakas: Agenda item: Can we agree to check in on Discord at least once per day during the week? It seems like my messages mostly go unresponded to for several days recently, which makes it difficult to make progress on some things.

* @btmills will usually be able to proactively check Discord.
* @btmills notes that Discord [stopped sending notifications](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/community/posts/360042890232-Push-notifications-for-large-servers-on-channel-by-channel-bases-) for team chats once the channel grew and will not send them no matter how users configure their notification preferences.

### [Contributor pool](https://github.com/issues?q=org%3Aeslint+label%3A%22contributor+pool%22+merged%3A%3E%3D2022-08-01+merged%3A%3C2022-09-01+)

* @nzakas suggests $300 for stefankolb because that's what we usually do for translations. :+1: from @btmills.
* @nzakas suggests $200 for lachlanhunt because the PR was more involved. :+1: from @btmills.
* @nzakas suggests $100 for the rest. :+1: from @btmills.

**Resolution**: @nzakas will reach out to award $300 to stefankolb, $200 to lachlanhunt, and $100 to chenxsan, nschonni, pmcelhaney, and shanpriyan.

### Updates

#### eslint-community

* @nzakas is working with Hayden on the logo.
* The eslint-community org is set up with MichaelDeBoey as an admin.
* We'll do an announcment once we have a logo and the first project or two.

#### Technical writer applications

* @nzakas has narrowed down to two finalists and is setting up calls with each.
* @nzakas hopes to have the writer selected within the next two weeks.
* @nzakas hopes that the technical writer might also become the blog editor-in-chief down the road.
* @btmills hopes to review the two blog posts over the weekend.

### [Scheduled release for september 9th, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16261)

* @btmills can do the release.
* `@eslint/eslintrc` will need to be released with an alternative implementation to [fix: normalizePlugin() returns the same object](https://github.com/eslint/eslintrc/pull/89), which @nzakas will submit.
* [fix: Ensure globbing doesn't include subdirectories](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/16272) is ready for flat config.

**Resolution**: @btmills will release `@eslint/eslintrc` and `eslint`.
