# 2022-12-01 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-12-01-transcript.md`](2022-12-01-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @mdjermanovic took notes.

## Topics

### [Change Request: Slight adjustment to logic introduced in #16348](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16492)

* @mdjermanovic clarifies that the issue is about a third-party formatter that modifies lint results in order to alter the exit code. After merging [#16348](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/16348), data used to determine exit code is calculated from lint results _before_ the formatter is executed, because we need to count warnings to pass additional data ([`context.maxWarningsExceeded`](https://eslint.org/docs/latest/developer-guide/working-with-custom-formatters#the-context-argument)) to the formatter. As a consequence, formatters can no longer alter the exit code by modifying lint results.
* @nzakas thinks there's no change to be made here. We can't have that data available for formatters if the formatters are run before it's calculated, and we don't want to add a generic preprocessing of results to support this use case.
* @mdjermanovic agrees. Formatters are not supposed to modify lint results and affect the exit code.

**Resolution:** We will not make any changes here. @mdjermanovic will leave a comment and close the issue.

### Misc updates

1. We've updated permissions to allow website-team write access to the eslint/eslint repo, and we've also set up a [CODEOWNERS](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/blob/main/.github/CODEOWNERS) file so that every PR needs at least one approval from a code owner. The goal was to allow website-team to merge PRs in the `docs` folder while still requiring approvals from eslint-team elsewhere.
2. @bpmutter is making a great progress on the docs. We're glad that through the process some pages that haven't been touched in a very long time are being updated.

### [Bug: [flat config] .mjs extension for config file](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16580)

* @nzakas is against adding optional filenames as it turned into mess with eslintrc, and thinks this is a temporary issue as people will not be writing CommonJS for too much longer.
* @mdjermanovic is slightly towards accepting the issue, as it allows for more flexibility so that projects that are not `"type": "module"` can use ESM configs. 
* @nzakas is not in favor of allowing flexibility for preferences, and states again that we shouldn't make changes to support CommonJS as no one will be writing it in the future.
* @mdjermanovic agrees, but questions whether CJS configs can provide the same functionality as ESM configs. For instance, CJS configs cannot use ESM dependencies, though this might be addressed by allowing async function configs.

**Resolution:** We've agreed not to support `.cjs` and `.mjs` config files at this point. @mdjermanovic will follow up with an issue around async function configs.

### [Contributor Pool](https://github.com/issues?q=org%3Aeslint+label%3A%22contributor+pool%22+merged%3A%3E%3D2022-11-01)

* @nzakas suggests $500 to sosukesuzuki. :+1: from @mdjermanovic, notes that they had 3 PRs, including 2 new rules. 
* @nzakas notes that JoshuaKGoldberg has previously declined payment.
* @mdjermanovic suggests $100 to trosos, $100 to fasttime, and $100 to chenxsan. :+1: from @nzakas.

**Resolution:** @nzakas will reach out to the recipients.

### [Scheduled release for December 2nd, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16567)

* @mdjermanovic volunteers for the release.
* Only `eslint` needs to be released.

**Resolution:** @mdjermanovic will release `eslint`.
