# 2022-03-24 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-03-24-transcript.md`](2022-03-24-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [feat!: Require schemas and object-style rules](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/85)

* This RFC is ready to merge, which @btmills will do unless there are objections. :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @nzakas.

### [Website redesign update](https://new.eslint.org/)

* @nzakas extracted all text from new.eslint.org for translation, and we already have a Spanish translation PR submitted! @nzakas hopes to have es.eslint.org running as a test by end of next week.
* Nitin is making progress on the playground, which could launch next week.
* @nzakas will work on docs starting next week starting with changes that will allow us to prepare content for the new site while still generating the current site.

### [Flat config update](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13481)

* @nzakas disabled array and function configs to simplify implementation to just object configs for now.
* The issue [Can't unignore patterns inside of ignore option](https://github.com/mrmlnc/fast-glob/issues/356) on the `fast-glob` dependency is a potential eventual blocker, but since this is a rare case, it shouldn't block a developer preview.
* @mdjermanovic points out that were this a `.gitignore` pattern, `["**/lib/**", "!**/lib/rules/**"]` would be invalid. It would instead be `["**/lib/**", "!**/lib/rules/", ""!**/lib/rules/**""]`.
* Everything in flat config with `isPathIgnored()` is minimatch patterns instead of `.gitignore` patterns.
* Caching is the next and last step before merging for a v1.
* @mdjarmanovic asks if the plan is to hash the contents of the config file itself.
* @nzakas plans to JSONify the config, replacing the few things like plugins that can't be serialized.

### [Scheduled release for March 25th, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15702)

* @btmills volunteers for the release.
* Only `eslint` needs to be released.

**Resolution:** @btmills will release `eslint`.
