# 2022-07-28 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-07-28-transcript.md`](2022-07-28-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### Technical Writer Job Post

* @btmills put together a draft technical writer job post.
* @nzakas had some suggested edits to fully consider all three audiences for the docs: users, contributors (those who work directly in the ESLint repositories), and developers (those who write custom rules, plugins, etc.).
* Once edits are applied, we're good to post it.

### New Teams

* We now have a website team consisting of amareshsm, harish-sethuraman, and kecrily! @nzakas is working on adding them to the website.
* platinumazure is the inaugural member of the support team.

### [feat: Implement FlatESLint](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/16149)

* The PR is up! The mental model is much simpler now that all the logic lives in `FlatESLint` rather than split between `ESLint` and `CLIEngine`.
* There's some weirdness around ignores, partly historical and also special behavior that differs from eslintrc. @nzakas found a bug with ignores that shouldn't block this experimental PR.

### Contributor pool

* @nzakas nominates amareshsm and harish-sethuraman for website work, noting they'll start invoicing in August. :+1: from @btmills.
* @nzakas nominates brandongregoryscott for [feat: add importNames support for patterns in no-restricted-imports](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/16059). :+1: from @btmills.
* @btmills nominates lachlanhunt for [fix: no-warning-comments rule escapes special RegEx characters in terms](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/16090). :+1: from @nzakas.
* @nzakas nominates JounQuin for [feat: catch preprocess errors](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/16105). :+1: from @btmills.
* @nzakas nominates Rodzman for [feat: Translation to PT-BR (fixes #242)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint.org/pull/251). :+1: from @btmills.
* @nzakas would like to thank kepeniukas. :+1: from @btmills.
* @nzakas suggests $300 for Rodzman, $200 each for amareshsm and harish-sethuraman, and $100 each for brandongregoryscott, lachlanhunt, and JounQuin. :+1: from @btmills

**Resolution:** @nzakas will reach out to award $300 to Rodzman, $200 to amareshsm and harish-sethuraman, and $100 to brandongregoryscott, lachlanhunt, and JounQuin.

### [Scheduled release for July 29th, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16146)

* @btmills is able to do the release, though it may not happen until Sunday. The 2-day waiting period before deciding on a patch release will still apply.
* It'll include a patch release of `espree` followed by bumping its version in `eslint`'s dependencies.
* @nzakas would ideally like two reviews on `FlatESLint`, but since it has decent test coverage and is experimental, we could merge it with only one.
* @nzakas will follow up with a multi-part series explaining why we are doing a new config system, the advantages, and how to use it.

**Resolution:** @btmills will release `espree` and `eslint`.
