# 2022-04-21 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-04-21-transcript.md`](2022-04-21-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [Website redesign update](https://new.eslint.org/)

* The playground is almost ready to launch aside from a couple of UI bugs that could be resolved within 24 hours.
* We'll need some automation to update the ESLint version after each release.
* Once frontmatter changes go in tomorrow's release, we can ask for help updating docs to look their best in the new format.
* Once the playground and docs are rolled out, the marketing site is ready to go as-is.
* There will be a script just prior to running Eleventy that will generate the rules index.
* We launched our first translation at `es.eslint.org`, and Chinese and Japanese could be up as soon as tomorrow.
* We aren't translating blog posts, so `/blog/*` on any translation will redirect to the English site.

#### Netlify Proxies

* With Netlify proxies, we could manage the docs as an independent site at `docs.eslint.org` but still host them at `eslint.org/docs`.
* Further, translations could be at e.g. `es.eslint.org/docs` instead of `es.docs.eslint.org`.
* @mdjermanovic and @btmills ask about whether content would be duplicated at both places or if we could redirect from or disallow crawling on one. @nzakas will look into that.
* @mdjermanovic asks if the playground would still be a path on `eslint.org/`.
* @nzakas had been thinking of having the playground on a subdomain, but we could do `/play`.
* @mdjermanovic summarizes that all existing public URLs would remain (except possibly the playground), but we'd manage the content in multiple repositories under the hood. :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.
* @btmills prefers `/play` for consistency and because it gives us the option to do translations as `es.eslint.org/play`, though @nzakas hadn't been planning to translate the playground.
* @nzakas will use `/docs` and `/play` as we roll out.

**Resolution:** We'll use Netlify proxies to manage the docs and playground as multiple repositories but serve them from `/docs` and `/play`.

### [Scheduled release for April 22nd, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15777)

* @mdjermanovic can do the release.
* It will be `@eslint/eslintrc` to fix a bug followed by `eslint`.
* @mdjermanovic would like to include [feat: Add rule no-constant-binary-expression](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15296) if @nzakas's review comments have been addressed.

**Resolution:** @mdjermanovic will release `@eslint/eslintrc` and `eslint`.
