# 2022-07-14 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-07-14-transcript.md`](2022-07-14-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### Housekeeping

* @mdjermanovic is away for the next four weeks.
* @nzakas won't be able to keep up with issues and PRs alone and would appreciate help.
* @btmills will allocate more time to the triage board.

### [feat: create "`@eslint-community` GitHub organization" RFC](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/91)

> @nzakas: Agenda item: [eslint/rfcs#91](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/91) needs finalization. One of the open items is if we should pay the maintainers of eslint-community as members of the team (like committers). Let’s decide on that.

* @nzakas believes if the eslint-community organization is overseen by the TSC, we should pay the maintainers.
* @btmills believes having the eslint-community organization to provde continuity for widely-depended-upon packages is consistent with sponsors' intent.
* The eslint-community team will be a special subteam like the website team.

**Resolution**: We will pay eslint-community maintainers at the same level as committers.

### [New approach to flat config development](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/363#issuecomment-1183827930)

> @nzakas: Agenda item: I’d like to propose a new approach to flat config development. I’d like to commit an incomplete version of FlatESLint (no caching, some glob-related bugs) soon to avoid getting to far behind main. That would allow us to get some early feedback from people. I’d focus on documenting flat config, writing up some introductory blog posts, and then circling back to finish the implementation.

* @btmills asks if flat config would be subject to semver constraints.
* @nzakas says it wouldn't be accessible from the CLI, just the API via the `use-at-your-own-risk` entrypoint.
* :+1: from @btmills.

**Resolution**: We will merge a partially complete version of `FlatESLint`.

### Technical writer

* @nzakas reached out to a contact, who suggested reaching out to someone via writethedocs.org.
* They have two [pricing tiers](https://jobs.writethedocs.org/pricing/): $100 for a post on the [job board](https://jobs.writethedocs.org/) and $250 to also share it in the newsletter.
* @nzakas is in favor of $250 to include the newsletter. :+1: from @btmills.
* @btmills accidentally volunteers to work on a job post.

**Resolution**: @btmills will draft a technical writer job post that we'll eventually post to the writethedocs.org job board and newsletter.

### [Scheduled release for July 15th, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16099)

* @btmills volunteers for the release.
* The previous release just had minor friction updating the site with the blog post.
* @nzakas suggests making the autogenerated blog post `draft: true` initially. :+1: from @btmills.
* This will include major versions of `generator-eslint` and `eslint-plugin-markdown`.

**Resolution**: @btmills will release major versions of `generator-eslint` and `eslint-plugin-markdown` and a minor version of `eslint`.
