# 2022-08-11 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-08-11-transcript.md`](2022-08-11-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [feat: create eslint-community GitHub organization](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/91)

**TSC Summary:** This RFC proposes an eslint-community org managed by a separate team but overseen by the TSC. This org would be a repository for important ESLint ecosystem projects and would be able to step on to maintain those projects I’d they fall out of maintenance.

**TSC Question:** Do we want to proceed with this proposal?

* @btmills is in favor and left an approval.

### Technical writer applications

* @btmills asks how we should be going through technical writer applications.
* @nzakas can drive the process and may ask for input along the way.
* The WriteTheDocs job board provides a kanban board for us to triage applications should we wish to use it, but all communication can be via email directly with the applicants.
* @nzakas suggests asking applicants to write a guest blog post first, for example a tutorial on creating a custom rule. :+1: from @btmills.

**Resolution:** @nzakas will go through applications, and the next step will be a guest blog post.

### [Scheduled release for August 12th, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16179)

* @btmills is available for the release.
* `create-config` is ready for a patch release.
* @nzakas submitted [feat: Implement caching for FlatESLint](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/16190).
* @btmills will review it before releasing and merge if there are no significant changes.

**Resolution:** @btmills will review `FlatESLint` caching then release `create-config` and `eslint`.
