# 2022-06-30 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-06-30-transcript.md`](2022-06-30-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [Blog post payments](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/358#issuecomment-1167712860)

> [@nzakas] Agenda item: should team members also get $300 per tutorial or case study? I think we should treat all non-critical blog posts (not releases, sponsorships, financials, announcements, etc.) this way regardless of who writes them.

* :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @btmills.

**Resolution**: We will pay everyone $300 for tutorials and case studies on the blog even if they are on the team.

### [Moving playground into eslint.org repository](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/358#issuecomment-1167715271)

> [@nzakas] Agenda item: should we move the playground into the eslint.org repo? The original plan was for it to be on a separate domain, but since we changed that, I donâ€™t know that it makes sense to have a separate repo. The current repo just has an Eleventy wrapper that embeds the React app. We could eliminate duplication of things like the header by moving it into the eslint.org repo. Plus, this would allow us to easily produce translated versions of the playground.

* :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @btmills.
* @nzakas asks @btmills to open an issue on the playground repository as part of notes. :+1: from @btmills.

**Resolution**: @btmills will open an issue to move the playground into the eslint.org repository.

### [Website team](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/358#issuecomment-1169423722)

> [@nzakas] Agenda item: should we set up a new website team? We have a bunch of folks who are contributing just to the website, so not necessarily appropriate to be committers, but perhaps a new team at the same level of pay would make sense?

* :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution**: @nzakas will set up a new team for website-focused folks.

### [Team hiring](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/358#issuecomment-1170693609)

> [@nzakas] Agenda item: Now that we have the new website up (and I have more time to deal with stuff), I'd like to revisit hiring some folks for various positions:
>
> 1. Project manager - I'd like to see if we can hire someone who could help us stay on top of issues and PRs. They would be responsible for triaging everything, and then also following up when issues/PRs haven't received attention and are just sitting around.
> 2. Editor-in-chief - I'd also like to think about hiring someone to help attract, edit, and schedule guest blog posts. Now that we have a new beautiful blog, it would be great to have someone working on it on an ongoing basis.
> 3. Tech writer - this would be a one-time thing, like we did for the website. I'd like to hire a tech writer to rewrite our documentation from scratch. The docs haven't changed all that much since the first release, and I think having fresh eyes and a new perspective (and organization!) could really help improve the website experience.

* Project manager:
	* @mdjermanovic asks if the project manager would triage issues/PRs or ping others to triage stale ones.
	* @nzakas says they would keep issues and PRs moving instead of getting stuck in "evaluating" or "feedback needed". @nzakas periodically pings folks, but he and @mdjermanovic are handling triage right now.
	* @nzakas thinks this could be an easier on-ramp for folks who aren't ready to contribute via code.
	* @btmills and @mdjermanovic are in favor.
* Editor-in chief: :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* Tech writer:
	* @nzakas notes this would be project-based rather than ongoing.
	* :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @btmills.
	* @nzakas is mentally budgeting $50,000 but doesn't yet know how much similar projects cost. :+1: from @btmills.
* @nzakas suggests setting up a Google form for applications but can first reach out to a few folks for leads. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

### [Scheduled release for July 1st, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16029)

* @btmills is available.
* It will include `@eslint/create-config` and, if time, `eslint-plugin-markdown`, but the latter can go out whenever.

**Resolution**: @btmills will release `@eslint/create-config`, `eslint`, and, if time, `eslint-plugin-markdown`.

### Website redesign launch

* @nzakas is happy with how smoothly things went.
* There are still a few small things outstanding, including Algolia search.
* We got a lot of positive feedback online.

### Contributor pool

* @nzakas nominates amareshsm, harish-sethuraman, and DeepshikaS for website work. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @btmills notes that amareshsm also helped with a bunch of CI upgrades in other repositories.
* @nzakas nominates alexbassy for [fix: Make no-unused-var function the same way in for..of loops as for..in loops](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15868). :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas nominates kepeniukas for Discord help :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas suggests $200 for amareshsm and harish-sethuraman and $100 for everyone else. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution**: @nzakas will reach out to award $200 to amareshsm and harish-sethuraman and $100 to DeepshikaS, alexbassy, and kepeniukas.
