# 2022-12-29 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-12-29-transcript.md`](2022-12-29-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [Change Request: Specifying files and ignores for eslint:recommended/eslint:all](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16537)

> @nzakas:
>
> **TSC Summary:** The one capability flat config doesn't currently have that eslintrc does is the ability to implement `extends: "eslint:recommended"`. This is the last compatibility piece for flat config to address before we move on to the next phase. This issue presents three options for how to move forward.
> 
> **TSC Question:** How do we want to support this use case in flat config?

* @mdjermanovic likes a separate package for `eslint:recommended` but notes it would make keeping `eslint:all` in sync with `eslint` more difficult.
	* @nzakas suggests we could solve that by having the package in the `eslint` repository initially.
	* @nzakas suspects `eslint:all` is not often used so is okay with more end-user friction.
* @btmills believes a separate package is the ideal future state because it no longer privileges "core" above any third party plugin.
	* This would allow adding new rules to `eslint:recommended` without waiting for an `eslint` major version.
* @nzakas asks whether we should name the separate package `@eslint/js` or `@eslint/plugin-js` and notes that it would initially contain `recommended` and `all` configs and eventually all JS-specific logic. This would remove the need for `eslint:recommended` and `eslint:all` special case logic in flat config.
	* @btmills asks if we should have JS infrastructure like parsing and code path analysis in `@eslint/js` and rules and plugins in `@eslint/plugin-js` or put it all in `@eslint/js`.
	* Given the extra dependency complication that would add, @nzakas would prefer to keep everything in one package that includes all the basics for working with JS. :+1: from @btmills.
	* @nzakas notes prior art for both names: Astro with `@eslint/js` and Rollup with `@eslint/plugin-js`.
	* @btmills prefers `@eslint/js` since it will eventually contain common infrastructure for all JS users in addition to rules and configs so should be named differently than other plugins.
	* @nzakas and @mdjermanovic are also in favor of `@eslint/js`.

**Resolution:** We will publish the `recommended` and `all` configs in a separate package named `@eslint/js` that will eventually contain all JS-specific logic.

### [feat: ESLint Language Plugins](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/99)

* @nzakas requests review of the language plugins RFC. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

### Documentation update

* @nzakas: We'll probably switch URLs to the new format for the next release. This milestone lays the foundation for more substantive changes.

### Rust/WebAssembly

* @nzakas has been exploring Rust/WebAssembly for parsing, but it was slower than JS at parsing JSON.

### [Contributor Pool](https://github.com/issues?q=org%3Aeslint+label%3A%22contributor+pool%22+merged%3A%3E%3D2022-12-01)

* @nzakas suggests $100 for each. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution:** @nzakas will reach out to award $100 each to Kaltoft, chenxsan, dbartholomae, and fasttime.

### [Scheduled release for December 30th, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16681)

* @btmills upgraded Jenkins to the latest LTS and all plugins to latest.
* @btmills volunteers for the release in case something broke.
* @nzakas suggests releasing `@eslint/eslintrc` for a README update.
* @mdjermanovic says to choose `latest` from the dropdown when releasing `eslint` due to `package.json` script name updates.
* @btmills asks if we should release `@eslint/create-config` and `generator-eslint` with small updates even though they can be released separately. @nzakas says yes.

**Resolution:** @btmills will release `generator-eslint`, `@eslint/create-config`, `@eslint/eslintrc`, and `eslint`.
