# 2022-06-02 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-06-02-transcript.md`](2022-06-02-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### eslint-plugin-markdown [feat!: drop node v8 and v10](https://github.com/eslint/eslint-plugin-markdown/pull/203)

> @btmills:
>
> **TSC summary**: `eslint-plugin-markdown` currently tests against [ESLint 6+ and Node 8+](https://github.com/eslint/eslint-plugin-markdown/blob/87c2b536fd80b15e134766d92b90048ae45cbe1f/.github/workflows/ci.yml#L32-L33). This pull request would drop support for end-of-life versions of Node.js. Normally, we drop support for EOL engines as part of regular major releases. However, we have no other breaking changes queued up for this package.
>
> **TSC question**: Should we do a semver-major release just to drop support for EOL Node.js versions?

* @nzakas asks if the Markdown plugin has ever dropped support for EOL Node.js versions before.
* We [dropped Node.js v6 support](https://github.com/eslint/eslint-plugin-markdown/pull/137) as part of the v2.0.0 major release.
* @nzakas doesn't see dropping old versions being an issue and would like to know which ES features we can use going forward.
* The PR only drops Node.js v8 and v10, but v12 is EOL as of April. @btmills asks if we should drop support for v12 as well.
* @nzakas suggests bumping the minimum version to v12.22 to match ESLint. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution**: The Markdown plugin will drop Node.js v8 and v10 and require at least v12.22.

### [fix: use @typescript-eslint/recommended & support vue3](https://github.com/eslint/create-config/pull/31)

> @aladdin-add
>
> TSC summary: Airbnb config enables some core rules that don't work well with TypeScript code. Those rules should be either replaced with [extension rules](https://github.com/typescript-eslint/typescript-eslint/tree/main/packages/eslint-plugin#extension-rules), or disabled in favor of builtin tsc checks.
>
> Question: do we want to remove Airbnb from the list of style guides when the answer to `"Does your project use TypeScript"` was Yes. 

* Since the Airbnb config does not support TypeScript, @mdjermanovic is in favor of removal and notes that we  can restore it if they ever publish a config that supports TypeScript. :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.

**Resolution**: We will remove the Airbnb config from the list of options in `--init` when the project uses TypeScript.

### [Switch `/docs/` to `/docs/latest/`](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/350#issuecomment-1144160869)

> @nzakas: Agenda Item: For the new docs site, I'd like to propose we change from `/docs/` to `/docs/latest/` for the most recent version of the documentation. This will allow us to more easily support multiple different documentation versions (like `/docs/v7.x/` and `/docs/head/`).

* :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @btmills asks if `/docs/` will redirect to `/docs/latest/`.
* Specifically, @nzakas says e.g. `/docs/user-guide/` will redirect to `docs/latest/user-guide/`.
* @mdjermanovic hopes that search engines will see `/docs/latest/` as the canonical URL.
* @nzakas notes that we can configure that in `robots.txt` by `noindex`ing the rest.

**Resolution**: We will move the latest docs to `/docs/latest/`.

### Contributor pool

* @nzakas nominates amareshsm for [website and playground contributions](https://github.com/eslint/new.eslint.org/pulls?q=is%3Apr+author%3Aamareshsm+is%3Aclosed). :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas nominates harish-sethuraman for the same. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas nominates darahak for the French translation of the site. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas nominates JackNapis and Kepeniukas for Discord help. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas nominates nschonni for [cleanup work](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+author%3Anschonni). :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas nominates coderaiser for [fix: function-paren-newline crash on "new new Foo();"](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15850?). :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas nominates Brack0 also for the French translation. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas suggests $300 for darahak, $200 for amareshsm, and $100 for the rest. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution**: Award $300 to darahak, $200 to amareshsm, and $100 to harish-sethuraman, JackNapis, Kepeniukas, nschonni, coderaiser, and Brack0.

### [Scheduled release for June 3rd, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15911)

* @mdjermanovic volunteers for the release.
* @mdjermanovic asks for review on [feat: add `allowNamedExports` option to no-use-before-define](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15953) and [feat: fix indent bug with semicolon-first style](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15951).

**Resolution**: @mdjermanovic will do the release.
