# 2022-11-17 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-11-17-transcript.md`](2022-11-17-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @mdjermanovic took notes.

## Topics

### [Docs information architecture refactor](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/97)

**TSC Summary:** The last point to address here is how to move forward with URL structure. Possible options are:

1. persona/action such as users/configure
2. use case/action such as use/configure
3. using/configuring

**TSC Questions:** Which format do we want to use?

* @nzakas is in favor of (2), the `/use/configure` style.
* @mdjermanovic has concerns that (2) might look weird in some cases. For example, `/extend/nodejs-api` sounds like extending the API, `/contribute/architecture` sounds like contributing to the architecture.
* @nzakas thinks we may end up with those types of situations no matter which format we choose.
* @btmills thinks in most cases `/:verb/:subject` will feel pretty natural. When it doesn't, we could reword the subject. For example, `/extend/via-api` or `/extend/using-api`.
* @nzakas agrees and notes that we could also insert words in the middle. For example, `/contribute/learn/architecture`.
* @mdjermanovic agrees.

**Resolution:** We have agreed to (2) `/:verb/:subject` for the URL format. For any that look too weird, we can consider changing the URL by either changing the subject, inserting `/learn/` in the middle, or otherwise adjusting so it reads better.

### [Complete rewrite of ESLint](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/discussions/16557)

* @nzakas asks for opinions about this as a general direction.
* @mdjermanovic supports the general direction, pending details.
* @nzakas notes that this will require multiple RFCs.
* @btmills supports the general direction and agrees that doing all of that within the current codebase would be challenging to implement and require a lot of breaking changes. The biggest concern is bandwidth.
* @nzakas agrees that bandwidth is a concern, and says that's part of why this will be a separate codebase. If it needs to sit and do nothing for a while, that's okay because it's not hurting anything. However, there could be an overlap: we could split out the JS functionality into its own plugin and use it in both projects.
* @btmills suggests that reusing the existing ecosystem of rules and plugins would be huge.
* @nzakas clarifies that this is the goal and notes that the strength of ESLint is the ecosystem, so some level of compatibility needs to be there. Making a few changes in a plugin to continue working would probably be acceptable to its maintainers, but rewriting the plugin most likely won't.
* @nzakas further notes that this is the reason why rewriting in Rust is not an option. However, we might be able to create a standalone executable in Rust that embeds Deno and then load all of our JS into Deno and run it through Rust.
* @btmills asks what would be a good place to start.
* @nzakas thinks that would be a language-agnostic plugin format. We could demo a JSON-specific plugin. Then, we could move all the JS functionality into its own plugin and use it with the current ESLint.
* @btmills asks what the boundary between core and plugins would be.
* @nzakas clarifies that the core would become language-agnostic. Parsing, analyzing, and traversal would be the responsibility of language-specific plugins.


**Resolution:** TSC supports the direction. The next action item is on @nzakas to produce the first RFC related to this.

### [Scheduled release for November 18th, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16524)

* @mdjermanovic volunteers for the release.
* Only `eslint` needs to be released.

**Resolution:** @mdjermanovic will release `eslint`.
