# 2022-01-27 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-01-27-transcript.md`](2022-01-27-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [Roadmap planning 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15383)

* This issue collected big ideas that weren't already tracked elsewhere. For each one, we'll see if there's general support for the direction but not get into implementation details:
* Switch the ESLint repo to ESM: :+1: from all
* Allow async parsers: :+1: from all
* Allow async rules: :+1: from all
* Enable typechecking (via `tsc` and JSDoc comments) in our repos, and expose types from our npm packages: :+1: from all
* Allow easier linting of non-JS languages (CSS, Markdown, etc.): :+1: from all
* Create an `<eslint-editor>` web component (like the editor on the demo, just portable): :+1: from all
	* @btmills asks whether the goal is to support just our demo or if there are other consumers.
	* @nzakas wants to embed it as a live playground in rule documentation pages so people can try settings, but we might as well publish it. It would be just the editor with squigglies and possibly tooltips for errors. The page would have to provide everything else.
* @nzakas suggests the following prioritiziation order:
	1. Allow async parsers
	2. Enable typechecking (via `tsc` and JSDoc comments) in our repos, and expose types from our npm packages
	3. Switch the ESLint repo to ESM
	4. Create an `<eslint-editor>` web component (like the editor on the demo, just portable)
	5. Allow easier linting of non-JS languages (CSS, Markdown, etc.)
	6. Allow async rules
* :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @btmills
* @mdjermanovic asks if async rules just means async `create()`.
* @nzakas is thinking of going all the way down to visitor methods, but that would be up to an RFC.
* @nzakas assumes everyone can handle only one big task for 2022 and asks what everyone's most interested in.
* @nzakas and @mdjermanovic are most interested in async parsing.
* @btmills has been wanting to do non-JS langs, but will take `tsc` since it's higher priority.
* @nzakas leaves async parsing to @mdjermanovic so we can start immediately and will focus on finishing up the website and flat config.
* When those are done, @nzakas hopes to focus on the editor component. :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @btmills.

**Resolution**: @btmills will ensure that each task has an issue on the roadmap project.

### Website update

* The marketing site is nearly done aside from the homepage animation. Expect a public beta soon.
* Sara is making quick progress on the docs site. @nzakas is figuring out how to integrate it into the main site and will set up docs.eslint.org next week.
* The big remaining docs task is the Algolia search integration, but @nzakas has contacts there in case we get stuck.
* @nzakas hopes to switch to the new marketing site by the start of March.

### January contributor awards

* @nzakas nominates JackNapis and Kepeniukas for Discord help. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @mdjermanovic nominates Yiwei-Ding for [feat: implement rfc 2021-suppression-support](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15459). Since we're waiting for PRs to be merged, we'll wait for next month.
* @mdjermanovic nominates gfyoung for [feat: no-restricted-imports support casing](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15439). :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.
* @btmills nominates captbaritone for [fix: Prevent false positives with no-constant-condition](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15486). :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @nzakas.
* @nzakas nominates olgashi for [feat: Update shell code fences for new website](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15522). :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @btmills nominates fasttime for [fix: Add property `fatalErrorCount` to ignored file results](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15520). :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @nzakas.
* @nzakas initially suggests $100 to everyone.
* @mdjermanovic suggests $200 for gfyoung because that change first required work on the `ignore` package. :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.

**Resolution**: @nzakas will reach out to award $200 to gfyoung and $100 each to JackNapis, Kepeniukas, Yiwei-Ding, captbaritone, olgashi, and fasttime.

### [Scheduled release for January 28th, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15532)

* @mdjermanovic volunteers for the release.
* There are a couple Espree PRs that are almost done and might be ready for the release.

**Resolution**: @mdjermanovic will do the release, potentially including Espree if PRs are ready.
