# 2022-08-25 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2022-08-25-transcript.md`](2022-08-25-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### eslint-community Graphics

> @nzakas: Agenda item: To set up the eslint-community repo, I think it would be nice to get a custom logo and blog graphic (for updates) designed. Can we allocate budget for this?

* @btmills is in favor and asks if we'll use the same artist who did the other graphics. @nzakas confirms.
* :+1: from @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution**: We will contract a custom logo and blog graphic for the eslint-community organization.

### Tech Writer Guest Posts

> @nzakas: Agenda item: Shall we pay $300 to tech writers who applied for the position via guest blog post even if we donâ€™t end up publishing the post?

* :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* This was what @nzakas had in mind originally, but we didn't make that explicit at the time.

**Resolution**: We will pay $300 to tech writer applicants who write a blog post even if we don't publish it.

### Contributor Pool Label

* @nzakas add a "contributor pool" label so we can keep track of PRs that we'd like to award during the month.

### Tech Writer Hiring Update

* @nzakas invited four candidates to submit blog posts, and two already have.
* @nzakas would welcome help reviewing submissions and evaluating following directions, responding to feedback, and understanding ESLint.

### Flat Config Update

* @nzakas wired flat config into the CLI and pushed a PR. It still needs a couple changes, but it may be ready for this release.

### [Scheduled release for August 26th, 2022](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/16210)

* @mdjermanovic volunteers for the release.
* `espree` is ready for a release, so `eslintrc` will release as well to update its `espree` dependency.
* @btmills thought `create-config` would need a release, but @mdjermanovic pointed out that the only changes were non-user-facing.

**Resolution**: @mdjermanovic will reelase `espree`, `eslintrc`, and `eslint`.

### Contributor Pool

* With seven days left in the month, all agreed to wait until the next meeting.
