# 2025-10-30 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2025-10-30-transcript.md`](2025-10-30-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:** Has been mostly doing issue/PR triage with limited time, but opened a PR to update the core types in eslint package.
* **@mdjermanovic:** Was mostly reviewing PRs.
* **@fasttime:** Has been reviewing PRs and issues most of the time.

### Availability Next Two Weeks

* **@nzakas:** Still 0.5-1 hours each weekday.
* **@mdjermanovic:** Expects to be available around 2h each day.
* **@fasttime:** Should be available around 12 hours per week.

### RFC Duty Update

* This week: @mdjermanovic
* November 3: @fasttime
* November 10: @nzakas

### Contributor Pool Cap

**TSC Summary:** As ESLint continues to spend more money than it brings in, the team discussed implementing a cap on contributor pool payouts. The original agreement was to award a total of $1,000 per month (based on 10% of $10,000/month in donations). The team had previously agreed to go over one time, but the cap was forgotten over time.

**TSC Question:** Should we set a hard limit (like $1,000), a percentage limit (10% of donations for that month), or another approach?

**Resolution:** The TSC agreed to set a monthly cap for contributor pool payouts at 10% of the month's recurring sponsorship (excluding one-time donations). The data for recurring sponsorships is already available on the website and will be integrated into the contributor pool report.

Key decisions:
- No awards under $100 - if a contribution isn't worth $100, it should be left off
- PRs labeled as "contributor pool" become nominees, and the TSC decides who to award from that pool
- The program was always meant for significant contributions, not every contribution
- @nzakas will update the contributor pool report to calculate this automatically

### Issues and PRs

No particular issues or PRs were raised for discussion.

### V10 Development Planning

The TSC reviewed the [v10.0.0 project board](https://github.com/orgs/eslint/projects/6).

#### Current Status

**TSC Summary:** Most tasks for alpha are in progress. Some are ready to merge, some have change requests, and some are waiting for approval or second approval.

#### [feat!: Program range span entire source text](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/20133)

**TSC Summary:** This PR has a change request regarding SourceCode implementation efficiency. The change in Program range requires modifications in the JS SourceCode implementation to maintain O(1) performance. Part of the implementation was based on the assumption that all nodes start/end with a token, but now the Program node doesn't necessarily start/end with a token (due to leading/trailing whitespace). This was particularly tricky to catch as it wasn't caught by tests.

**Resolution:** The TSC expects this to be resolved in time for alpha (within the next two weeks).

#### @eslint/compat Update for Removed SourceCode Methods

**TSC Summary:** @nzakas noted that updating @eslint/compat for the removed SourceCode methods (which was announced for v10) isn't tracked on the board. This is covered by [rewrite#279](https://github.com/eslint/rewrite/issues/279) and should be ready for alpha.0.

**Resolution:** @fasttime will create an issue and work on a PR. The TSC confirmed this needs to be ready for alpha.0.

#### Post-Release Timeline

**TSC Summary:** @fasttime asked about next steps after tomorrow's release.

**Resolution:** The TSC agreed to:
1. Create a v9.x-dev branch from main after tomorrow's release
2. Start merging v10-alpha PRs that are ready to merge
3. @mdjermanovic will raise a PR to update the Manage Releases docs with a list of ~8 small things that should be done before alpha.0 releases

#### Other V10 Notes

- All other PRs on the alpha list have at least one approval, except for the eslintrc removal PR (which is not a concern)
- The minimatch change might have some hidden issues, but it isn't announced for alpha
- @nzakas noted they haven't bothered reviewing anything for v10 to this point

### Scheduled release for October 31st, 2025

**Action Items:**

- @fasttime will:
  - Do the release around today's meeting time
  - Release `@eslint/js` and `eslint`

- @nzakas will:
  - Try to get [eslint#20257](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/20257) merged (fix: Use more types from @eslint/core)
  - Review as many non-breaking PRs as possible tomorrow morning

**Note:** The pending release in @eslint/eslintrc will be skipped as the changes aren't necessary until v10.
