# 2025-11-13 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2025-11-13-transcript.md`](2025-11-13-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @mdjermanovic took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:** Has been working on the "remove eslintrc" PR and other misc v10 tasks.
* **@mdjermanovic:** Was focused on preparing the first v10 prerelease.
* **@fasttime:** Was mostly busy with reviews and prepared a PR to update `@types/eslint-scope` to v9.

### Availability Next Two Weeks

* **@nzakas:** Mostly 0.5-1 hours each weekday except for November 27-28 when he'll be offline.
* **@mdjermanovic:** Expects to be available around 2h each day.
* **@fasttime:** Should be available 7-9 hours per week.

### RFC Duty Update

* This week: @nzakas
* November 17: @mdjermanovic
* November 24: @fasttime

### Sponsorship and spending data

**Agenda item**: Let's review recent sponsorship and spending data. Right now, we are receiving $10,737.04 in recurring monthly sponsorships. For the month of October, we paid out nearly $22,000 just for maintenance and development (we haven't yet done Contributor Pool for October). While we have the reserves to cover this, we need to watch this closely going forward as spending over $10,000 more per month than we're bringing in isn't sustainable.

**Resolution:** If and when the reserve hits $120,000, we'll need to institute some changes. Some ideas are lowering per-hour rates or capping the amount any one contributor can be paid in a month. Also, we need to be more public about asking for sponsorships going forward, probably with a blog post right after we release the 2025 year in review.

### Issues and PRs

#### [Make the data property stricter](https://github.com/eslint/rewrite/issues/310)

**TSC Question:** Do we want to change the type of data for fixes and suggestions from `unknown` to `string|number|boolean|bigint`?

Rules currently can pass any type of data and it will be coerced to a string value. We already have a lot of rules passing numbers. However, the problem with things like arrays, objects, dates, etc. is that the output may not be what people expect.

**Resolution:** We've agreed to change the type for both fix and suggestions data properties to `string|number|boolean|bigint|null|undefined`. We'll also add tests to ensure that these values work as expected in runtime.

#### [correct `RuleTester` typings](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/20105)

**TSC Question:** `RuleTester` has some undocumented static methods: `setDefaultConfig`, `getDefaultConfig` and `resetDefaultConfig`. The question is whether we want to make these methods public by adding types and documentation, because it's not clear if they were ever used.

Per [this search](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=context:global+repo:.*eslint.*plugin.*+setDefaultConfig&patternType=keyword&sm=0), the methods are used in several projects.

**Resolution:** We've agreed to add types and docs for these methods.

#### [support TS syntax in `no-redeclare`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/19563)

**TSC Question:** The `@typescript-eslint/no-redeclare` rule is controversial. On one hand, it reports problems that TypeScript already catches; on the other, it flags types and values sharing the same name, which some developers consider unnecessary. We want to decide how to update the no-redeclare rule to support TypeScript syntax. We have some options here:

1. Report types and values with identical names, as `@typescript-eslint/no-redeclare` does, but without the bulk of options of the original rule (which are mostly used to report cases already covered by TypeScript).
2. This was suggested by Kirk Waiblinger: adding an option to indicate whether values and types with the same name should be reported in cases where TypeScript allows them (e.g. function and interface).
3. Diverge from the original rule and make our rule as permissive as possible.

As a type and a value declaration with the same name are not actually declaring the same thing, this doesn't qualify as "redeclaration". The fact that `@typescript-eslint/plugin` has this check in their extension rule doesn't necessarily mean it belongs in this rule, and we think this check should rather be a separate rule.

**Resolution:** We've agreed to go with option 3.

### V10 Development Planning

#### Should we continue releasing `@eslint/js` every time we release `eslint`

**Agenda item**: Starting with ESLint v10.0.0-alpha.0, `@eslint/js` is no longer a direct dependency of `eslint`. Previously, we always released `@eslint/js` alongside `eslint` to keep their versions in sync. This seems no longer necessary now. Should we continue releasing `@eslint/js` together with eslint, even when there are no changes?

**Resolution:** We'll be releasing `@eslint/js` only when there are some changes in it. We don't need to keep the version numbers in sync going forward. For example, if we add a new rule in ESLint v10.5.0 and consequently update the `all` config in `@eslint/js`, we'll release `@eslint/js` v10.1.0 (assuming the current version is v10.0.0). We'll also add `peerDependency` to `eslint`.

#### [update `eslint-scope` types](https://github.com/eslint/js/issues/708)

**Agenda item**: @fasttime has opened a PR in DefinitelyTyped. The question is shall we rather add types to the `eslint-scope` package.

**Resolution:** We've agreed to add types to the `eslint-scope` package.

#### [stricter rule tester assertions for valid test cases](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/20125)

**TSC Summary**: This PR aims to disallow specifying `"errors"` and `"output"` properties on `valid` test case objects. The original issue, which has been accepted for ESLint v10.0.0, does not mention the `"output"` property and we didn't discuss it.

**TSC Question**: Do we want to include disallowing the `"output"` property on valid test case objects in ESLint v10.0.0?

 **Resolution:** We've agreed to also disallow `output` in valid test cases.

### [Scheduled release for November 14th, 2025](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/20293)

We're expecting to release the first v10 prerelease version: v10.0.0-alpha.0.

Remaining tasks:

1. Check if the Node.js upgrade on Jenkins is correct.
2. Merge [fix!: Remove deprecated rule context methods](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/20086).
3. Release `eslint/rewrite` packages and update dependencies to them in `eslint`.
4. Update the [Version Support](https://eslint.org/version-support/) page.

**Action Items:**

- @nzakas will:
  - Get Node.js working on Jenkins.
  - Finish work on the Remove deprecated rule context methods PR.

- @mdjermanovic will:
  - Prepare a PR to update the Version Support page.
  - Release `eslint/rewrite` packages and update dependencies to them in `eslint`.
  - Release `@eslint/js` v10.0.0-alpha.0.
  - Release `eslint` v10.0.0-alpha.0.
