# 2025-02-06 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2025-02-06-transcript.md`](2025-02-06-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:** has been working on the CSS plugin, the extends RFC and code, and adding some tooling into the `eslint/rewrite` repo to make it easier to add packages.
* **@mdjermanovic:** working on the flags update and the new --ext option.
* **@fasttime:** mostly busy with reviews. Haven't managed to do much progress on the browser tests. I'll post a draft PR tomorrow so folks can have a look.


### RFC Duty update:
* Feb 3 - @Nicholas C. Zakas 
* Feb 10 - @mdjermanovic 
* Feb 17 - @fasttime


### [Change Request: Support JSX references](https://github.com/eslint/js/issues/645)

This suggests adding the ability for eslint-scope to track JSX references by adding a new option (non-breaking). Shall we accept this proposal?

**Resolution:** we've agreed to accept this proposal

### [Bug: `--ignore-pattern` doesn't work well with `--flag unstable_config_lookup_from_file`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/18948)

Proposal to add `basePath` as a key to config objects. Shall we accept this proposal?

**Resolution:** we've agreed to accept this proposal and will move forward with an RFC.

**Action Items:** @mdjermanovic will work on RFC.

## [Contributor Pool January 2025](https://github.com/issues?q=org%3Aeslint+label%3A%22contributor+pool%22+merged%3A2025-01-01..2025-01-31)

- @RobertAKARobin: $200 eslint/json#76
- @RobinTail: $100 eslint/eslint#19306
- @Jay-Karia: $200 eslint/eslint#18784

### Scheduled release for February 6th, 2025

**Action Items:**

- @fasttime will release:
  - `eslint`