# 2025-01-23 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2025-01-23-transcript.md`](2025-01-23-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:** worked on getting the GitHub bot working again, the extends RFC, the year in review post, and the CSS plugin.
* **@mdjermanovic:** mostly reviewing PRs, then reviewing financial data, and prepared a PR for additional checks of rule examples.
* **@fasttime:** mostly busy triaging and reviewing stuff, did some work on language plugin types and extended the multithread linting RFC. Also worked on the browser tests


### RFC Duty update:
* Jan 20 - @mdjermanovic
* Jan 27 - @fasttime
* Feb 3 -  @nzakas

### [Bug: Error is thrown in `9.18.0` if `unstable_ts_config` flag is used](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/19337)

**TSC Summary:** This issue proposes that we change inactive flags to emit warnings instead of errors in these situations:

* An unstable flag becomes inactive because the feature is now enabled by default.
* A stable flag becomes inactive because the feature is now enabled by default.
* A flag moves from unstable to stable. The unstable flag should work just like the stable flag except that it emits a warning.

If an unstable flag is removed because the functionality is abandoned, then it throws an error.

**TSC Questions:** 

1. Should we accept this proposal?
2. Should inactive flags ever be removed?

**Resolution:** we've decided:

* We will accept the proposal as described in the issue.
* Inactive flags will be removed each major release.
* Abandoned features that will not land in ESLint should be removed (functionality and flag) in the next minor release.

**Action Items:** @mdjermanovic will describe these details on https://eslint.org/docs/latest/flags/ when the new functionality is implemented.


### [Change Request: Provide a better system than "extension" rules](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/19173)

**TSC Summary:** This issue proposes starting to make ESLint core rules TypeScript-aware in order to eliminate duplication with typescript-eslint.

**TSC Question:** Do we want to accept this proposal?

**Resolution:** we would like to accept this proposal but make it TypeScript syntax-aware, not type-aware.

### Ajv & Old Node.js Deprecation Warnings

 We're on an old version that is still working, but we've been getting complaints about deprecation warnings on Node.js v22. The last time we tried to upgrade it broke existing rules. 
 
**Options:**
1. Do we want to create our own fork of Ajv so we can make any changes we want? 
2. Do we want to try to upgrade it and see if the warning goes away?
3. Do we want to investigate switching to a different package?

For some context, it's actually Node.js itself that's emitting this warning, not npm, so people are seeing it whenever they run ESLint on Node.js v22.

**Resolution:** we've decided to fork it for now as it's easiest course of action.

**Action Items:** @fasttime will fork Ajv

### Scheduled release for January 24th, 2025

**Action Items:**

- @mdjermanovic will release:
  - `eslint`
  - `@eslint/js`
  - `@eslint/markdown`
  - `@eslint/json`
