# 2025-05-29 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2025-05-29-transcript.md`](2025-05-29-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:**  been working on implementing nested rules with element selectors in CSSTree as well as fixing type errors in CSSTree. Also continuing to work on refactoring the core.
* **@mdjermanovic:** been working on the basePath RFC, new `--pass-on-unpruned-suppressions` CLI option, and the `GlobalScope#implicit` bug in the core.
* **@fasttime:** been working mostly on the multithread linting prototype.

### RFC Duty update:

* May 26 - @mdjermanovic 
* June 2 - @fasttime 
* June 9 - @Nicholas C. Zakas

### Availability Next Two Weeks
* @nzakas expecting to be available 2.5-3 hours each weekday.
* @mdjermanovic will be mostly offline the next three days. After that, I'm expecting to be available 2-2.5 hours each day.
* @fasttime should be available about two hours a day the next two weeks.

### [Change Request: Use espree parser in prettierrc](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/19726)

This ticket has been open for about a week. A week is long enough to wait for something like this. I'd like to just close it and move on.

**Resolution:** we've agreed to close the issue as `WONTFIX`

### Scheduled release for May 30th, 2025

**Action Items:**

- @fasttime will:
  - review/merge:
    - [#19779](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/19779)
    - [#19760](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/19760)
  - release:
    - `eslint`
    - `@eslint/js`
