# 2025-05-01 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2025-05-01-transcript.md`](2025-05-01-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:** these past two weeks have been working on `CSSTree` and doing some refactoring of Linter in preparation for the core rewrite (more PRs coming for that). Overall goal is to split out a lot of the functionality into easier-to-manage pieces and then figure out an API on top of it.
* **@mdjermanovic:** mostly reviewing PRs. Also fixed a bug with circular references in `RuleTester`. Plan to focus on RFCs in the coming days.
* **@fasttime:** mostly busy reviewing PRs and issues.

### RFC Duty update:

* This week - @nzakas
* May 5 - @mdjermanovic 
* May 12 - @fasttime

### Availability Next Week
* @nzakas 3 hours each week day unless some freelance stuff pops up
* @mdjermanovic 1.5-2 hours each day
* @fasttime 10-12 hours a week


#### [Change Request: Allow rules to specify the languages/dialects they work on](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/19462)

> Thinking through this, we may actually have two different use cases here:

> To determine if a rule will work for a given language. This actually relates more to the plugin language than it does the formal name of the language (so, the json language in the json plugin vs. "JSON"). A rule may say it supports JSON but if someone is using a different language implementation that outputs a different AST, then this data isn't useful.
> To document if a rule works with a particular dialect of a language, the canonical example being if a rule is known to work with JavaScript and TypeScript. In this case, we might say that a rule supports the js/js language and due to the use of a custom parser, it can also support TypeScript. This has no functional effect on the rule, it's just basically documentation.
> So what we might want to do is two different things:

```js
export default {
    meta: {

        // indicate which plugin languages are required
        languages: ["markdown/commonmark", "markdown/gfm"]

        // indicate which language dialects the rule logically supports
        docs: {
            dialects: ["Markdown", "GFM", "MDX"]
        }
}
```

**Resolution:** @nzakas has asked @mdjermanovic and @fasttime to think about and comment on this issue.

### RFC Statuses

@nzakas is going to try to get @mdjermanovic and @fasttime RFCs approved soon.

> @nzakas: I think the basePath one is probably the only thing holding up a v10 (which I think we should do soon), and the concurrency one seems ready to move into a prototype to me.

**Action Items:** @nzakas, @mdjermanovic and @fasttime will review RFCs


## [Contributor Pool April 2025](https://github.com/issues?q=org%3Aeslint%20label%3A%22contributor%20pool%22%20merged%3A2025-04-01..2025-04-30%20)

- @lumirlumir: $1000 for eslint/rewrite#182, eslint/code-explorer#92, eslint/eslint#19604, eslint/markdown#328, eslint/markdown#332, eslint/markdown#334, eslint/markdown#336, eslint/markdown#344, eslint/markdown#348
- @xbinaryx: $300 for eslint/code-explorer#90, eslint/code-explorer#91, eslint/code-explorer#93
- @sethamus: $500 for eslint/eslint#19607, eslint/eslint#19645, eslint/eslint#19639, eslint/eslint#19628, eslint/eslint#19551
- @aryaemami59: $250 for eslint/eslint#19401
- @SwetaTanwar: $100 for eslint/eslint#19564
- @StyleShit: $100 for eslint/eslint#19631
- @thecalamiity: $100 for eslint/markdown#351
- @louis-young-slice: $100 for eslint/css#119

### Scheduled release for May 2nd, 2025

**Action Items:**

- @fasttime will merge the following PRs before the release:
  - eslint/eslint#19648
  - eslint/eslint#19670
  - eslint/eslint#19640

- @fasttime will release:
  - `eslint`
  - `@eslint/js`
