# 2025-01-09 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2025-01-09-transcript.md`](2025-01-09-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:** has been working on the `extends` RFC, the CSS plugin, and fixing the GitHub bot.
* **@mdjermanovic:** fixed a bug with suggestions in `@eslint/markdown` and updated docs site to use flat config format in rule examples.
* **@fasttime:** opened the RFC for multithread linting, unflagged TS config file support, worked to fix some issues with types in the rewrite repo, and I also opened a PR to partly automate the process of generating TSDoc comments in rule types https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/19276

### RFC Duty
* Next week: @nzakas
* Jan 20: @mdjermanovic
* Jan 27: @fasttime

### GitHub bot was down earlier this week

We're still running on Node.js 16 and Octokit made some breaking changes in a minor release so the app just crashed. 

**Action Items:** 

* @nzakas is in the process of updating the bot to run on Node.js 22 and should have it ready by next week. 
* @nzakas is going to remove some of the old plugins that are in there that we don't have enabled to reduce the amount of work.

### [Browser tests](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/19234)

We're at the point now where the browser tests always fail and are useless. We need to prioritize moving to a different tool.

**Action Items:** 

* @fasttime will look into Cypress as a replacement

## [Contributor Pool December 2024](https://github.com/issues?q=org%3Aeslint+label%3A%22contributor+pool%22+merged%3A2024-12-01..2024-12-31)


- @hildjj: $250 for eslint/json#69 eslint/json#70 eslint/json#71
- @yeonjuan: $100 for eslint/eslint#19200
- @ntnyq: $100 for eslint/eslint#19168
- @aryaemami59: $200 for eslint/eslint#19050

### Scheduled release for January 9th, 2025

**Action Items:**

- @fasttime will release:
  - `eslint`
  - `@eslint/js`
  - `@eslint/rewrite`

 
 
 

