# 2025-05-15 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2025-05-15-transcript.md`](2025-05-15-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:** continuing to refactor the core, bug fixing in CSSTree, and externalizing the MCP server.
* **@mdjermanovic:** reviewing a lot of PRs.
* **@fasttime:** fixed some issues with the types and started working on a prototype for multithread linting.

### RFC Duty update:

* May 1 - @fasttime 
* May 19 - @nzakas
* May 26 - @mdjermanovic

### Availability Next Week
* @nzakas expect to have 3 hours each day, outside of May 26, which is a holiday in the US.
* @mdjermanovic around 2 hours each day.
* @fasttime expect to be available 2 hours a day the next two weeks

### [feat: Support basePath property in config objects](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/131)

> @nzakas Because this issue of basePath in extends is the only thing left to resolve, let's go back to @mdjermanovic's original suggestion:
>
> To avoid confusion in expectations, defineConfig() should throw an error if it encounters basePath in extended configs?
>
> I'm okay with this, as it allows us the opportunity to think through this use case further and make changes down the line if necessary. I think it's important to get this change out relatively soon so we can start v10 planning.

**Resolution:** we've agreed to throw an error when there's `basePath` in `extends`

**Action Items:** team to prioritize updating and approving this RFC.

### [Rule Change: allow expression type annotation in `func-style`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/19719)

> The `func-style` rule is currently frozen, meaning we aren't making any further changes to it and we'd need the `@eslint/eslint-tsc` to override that. I believe the intent here is to make `func-style` TypeScript-aware, which seems like it goes along with our ongoing work to make ESLint as a whole more TypeScript-aware. As a result, I'm 👍 to overriding the frozen status of this rule for this particular purpose.

**Resolution:** we've agreed to implement this change behind a new option. We've also agreed that updating a frozen rule to support TypeScript syntax makes sense.

**Action Items:** @nzakas will update the description of frozen rules to make that explicit

### Do we want to post release messages in the Discord ⁠announcements channel?

We can automate that along with releasing to social media.

**Resolution:** we've agreed to this.

### Scheduled release for May 15th, 2025

**Action Items:**

- @mdjermanovic will release:
  - `eslint`
  - `@eslint/js`