# 2025-08-21 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2025-08-21-transcript.md`](2025-08-21-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:** Has been fixing parsing and validation errors in CSSTree, and primarily reviewing issues and PRs.
* **@fasttime:** Prepared the blog post about multithread linting and has been reviewing PRs and issues.

### Availability Next Two Weeks

* **@nzakas:** Still only going to have about an hour each weekday until September, then should have a bit more.
* **@fasttime:** Should be available around 12 hours per week the next two weeks.

### RFC Duty Update

* This week: @nzakas
* August 25: @mdjermanovic
* September 1: @fasttime

**Note:** September 1 is a holiday in the US, so @nzakas will be off that day.

### [Change Request: Replace `chalk` with Node.js' native `styleText`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/20012)

**TSC Summary:** This issue proposes replacing `chalk@4` with Node.js' native `styleText` for the stylish output in v10.

**TSC Question:** Should we implement this change for v10?

**Resolution:** Both TSC members are 👍 for doing this, assuming it makes sense with the Node.js versions. The decision depends on the version of v20 that will be supported and likely dropping support for Node.js 18. The issue will be moved into "Planned" for now.

### [Missed Contributor Pool Issue](https://github.com/eslint/markdown/pull/488)

**TSC Summary:** This PR fixing false positive issues in the no-unused-definitions and no-duplicate-definitions rules was missed in last month's contributor pool.

**TSC Question:** Should we retroactively reward this contribution?

**Resolution:** The TSC agreed to award $150 for this contribution. @nzakas will notify the contributor.

### Scheduled release for August 22nd, 2025

**Action Items:**

- @fasttime will:
  - Release `eslint-config-eslint` on August 22 before ESLint (contains breaking changes)
  - Release `@eslint/js` and `eslint`
- @nzakas will:
  - Review and edit the concurrency blog post to be ready for publication after the release