# 2025-02-20 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2025-02-20-transcript.md`](2025-02-20-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:** been working on the CSS plugin, the `defineConfig()` helper, and various publishing improvements in `eslint/rewrite`. Also added JSX support to eslint-scope
* **@mdjermanovic:** mostly reviewing PRs
* **@fasttime:** mostly reviewing PRs and worked on the fix for the retry utility


### RFC Duty update:
* This week - @fasttime 
* Feb 24 - @nzakas 
* Mar 3 - @mdjermanovic

### [Change Request: Make rules TypeScript syntax-aware](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/19173)

**TSC Summary:** In this issue, we agreed to start making some core rules TypeScript syntax-aware.

**TSC Question:** Should we add something into the rule meta to reflect this? If so, what should it be? And should we take into account that rules may be aware of other languages and/or types as well?

**Resolution:** we've agreed to add `meta.language` and `meta.dialects`, starting with rules that are TypeScript-enabled. We can revisit discussions around how to use that data at a later time.

### CSSTree Future

**TSC Summary:** While CSSTree is an excellent parser, it appears to be maintained by just one person and the turnaround time on fixes is very long. Should we fork CSSTree and use that for @eslint/css by default? The intention is to continue to push on CSSTree to implement the changes we need by submitting PRs back upstream. Ideally, most of these changes would be transparent to rules and when they're not, hopefully we can get some feedback on proposed API changes.

**Resolution:** we've decided to create a fork of CSSTree (`@eslint/css-tree`).

**Action Items:** @nzakas will work on getting that set up some time in the next week.


### Scheduled release for February 21st, 2025

**Action Items:**

- @fasttime will release:
  - `@eslint/core`
  - `@eslint/json`
  