# 2025-03-20 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2025-03-20-transcript.md`](2025-03-20-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:** been spending my time working on the CSS plugin and CSSTree together, updating `defineConfig`, `@eslint/migrate-config`, and `@eslint/create-config`
* **@mdjermanovic:** been working on the basePath RFC, and finished circular autofix detection
* **@fasttime:** been fixing a few bugs and doing maintenance tasks, did some work on types, and reviewed PRs

### RFC Duty update:
* March 17 - @nzakas
* Mar 24 - @mdjermanovic
* Mar 31 - @fasttime

### Availability

* **@nzakas:** expecting to be putting in 2-2.5 hours each work day during that period
* **@mdjermanovic:**  around 70-80% of my usual availability
* **@fasttime:** 7-9 hours a week

### [Bug: Error using eslint-plugin-react-compiler in a TypeScript config (`eslint.config.ts`)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/19413)

We are waiting for Arya to take a look.

### [Change Request: Provide config file path -or directory- to parsers](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/19438)

The ask is to pass in some information about the config file to parsers. @nzakas doesn't think this is a good idea.

> @nzakas: I just don't think we should keep expanding the scope of parser responsibilities. Parsers are explicitly not supposed to know anything about the config file. They're just supposed to get the arguments that are passed to them from ESLint no matter where they come from.

**Resolution:** we can close this issue as we're not moving forward with it.

### [Change Request: Support generic types for Rule.RuleModule type](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/19521)

The ask was to create a generic RuleModule definition to export from ESLint. @nzakas proposal is to create a generic `JSRuleDefinition` type that is exported from the eslint package to fulfill this need.

> @nzakas: We want to encourage people to use RuleDefinition from @eslint/core for any non-JS language rules.
>
> For JavaScript, I'd much rather create a JSRuleDefinition similar to `JSONRuleDefinition' that is exported from the eslintpackage (although, eventually it will live in the@eslint/js package).
>
> We should not be making any further changes to RuleModule or encourage its further use outside of ESLint itself.

**Resolution:** we've decided to create and export a JSRuleDefinition type from the eslint package and will follow up on the issue to discuss implementation details.

### Scheduled release for Match 21st, 2025

**Action Items:**

- @fasttime will release:'
  - `@eslint/eslint`
  - `@eslint/eslintrc`
  - `@eslint/create-config`
