# 2025-04-17 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2025-04-17-transcript.md`](2025-04-17-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:** been working on `CSSTree`, adding types to the CSS plugin, and the MCP server.
* **@mdjermanovic:** mostly reviewing PRs.
* **@fasttime:** been reviewing PRs and working on the multithread linting RFC.

### Availability Next Week
* @nzakas 1hr per day
* @mdjermanovic 1.5hr-2hr per day
* @fasttime 10-12 hours a week

### RFC Duty update:

* April 14 - @mdjermanovic
* April 21 - @fasttime 
* April 28 - @nzakas 

### [Rule Change: [no-array-constructor] Switch suggestions to full fixes](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/19608)

**Resolution:** we're fine with switching to autofixes. We'll mark it as accepted.

### Review Processes

Some PRs seem to be getting lost without reviews for weeks. For instance:

* https://github.com/eslint/rewrite/pull/172
* https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/19592

We talked a couple meetings ago about prioritizing each other's PRs. That doesn't seem to be happening. What can we do to tighten the feedback loop?

Can we maybe agree to set one day aside each week to just focus on each other's PRs?

**Resolution:** we've agreed to dedicate one day a week to reviewing each other's PRs. We'll see how it goes.

### Scheduled release for April 18th, 2025

**Action Items:**

- @mdjermanovic will release:
  - `eslint`
  - `@eslint/js`
  - `@eslint/json`
  - `@eslint/markdown`
  - `@eslint/css`