# 21-Dec-2017 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2017/12/21

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC

## Topics

### [Add mjs to --ext default](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9592)

* Currently `.js` is the only default extension. Request is to include `.mjs` by default.
* Would make sense to simultaneously set script type to `module` in `parserOptions` for `.mjs` files.
* And if we have `module` code, then we'd also want to enable ES6 by default for those files.
* @ilyavolodin prefers to focus instead on revamping processors and extensions in config.
* This is a breaking change since it could result in more errors, so it would have to wait for the next major release.
* General mood is that we will want to do this in the future.
* @kaicataldo proposes to re-evaluate when we start preparing the next major release. :+1: from @btmills, @not-an-aardvark, @ilyavolodin, @mysticatea, @platinumazure.

**Resolution**: We will re-evaluate this issue when we get ready for the next major release.

### [Update no-shadow-restricted-names to handle optional catch](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/9613)

* **TSC Summary**: This PR adds a null-check to a rule that would prevent it from crashing when it encounters code with [optional catch bindings](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-optional-catch-binding), a stage 3 proposal. There is some uncertainty about our policy on accepting changes like this. Officially, we only support stage 4 features, but in the past we've accepted patches to avoid crashes with syntax extensions like Flow, TypeScript, etc.
* **TSC Questions**:
* What is our policy for accepting patches related to custom syntax in rules?
    * Should it make a difference if the patch is very simple?
    * Should it make a difference if the custom syntax is a stage 3 feature and/or a very popular syntax extension?
* Should we support optional catch bindings in general?
* We've turned down stage 3 features in the past because they aren't yet stage 4.
* A lot of aversion to the churn we could face if stage 3 features change before reaching stage 4.
* Some non-stage-4 features are supported, e.g. JSX, JSDoc, type annotations, and object rest/spread. Of those, only the last is an ECMAScript feature, and it was decided before the TSC process. We have not accepted other PRs for stage-3 (or less) features.
* Tabling for now and filing an issue for further discussion.

**Resolution**: Create an issue to discuss the policy and come back to it next meeting.

### [Transfarring eslint-cli to eslint organization](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9602)

* **TSC Summary:**
* [eslint-cli] is the package which provides CLI command `eslint` which finds local-installed ESLint and runs it. I would like to transfer [eslint-cli] to [eslint organization](https://github.com/eslint).
* I think that [eslint-cli] improves https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/6732#issuecomment-340708991 with updating "Getting started" page. This transferring would make peace of mind to users as the tool is supported by the eslint team.
* I don't worry about copyrights because all commits of eslint-cli are mine and all dependencies are MIT license.
* **TSC Question:** Do we accept this proposal?
* This was discussed in [a previous meeting](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/blob/master/notes/2017/2017-12-07.md#transfarring-eslint-cli-to-eslint-organization), after which @ilyavolodin created a [discussion](https://github.com/orgs/eslint/teams/eslint-team/discussions/1) about it.
* @not-an-aardvark proposed making the discussion public. :+1: from @ilyavolodin, @platinumazure, @kaicataldo, @btmills, @mysticatea.
* In the discussion, @platinumazure suggested asking users (probably via Twitter poll) what their use cases are and whether we need to support global installation.
* Global installation is an npm feature, so if we deprecated global installation, that would mean we always look for a local installation when run globally.
* We would be unlikely to ever remove CLI functionality from the `eslint` npm package for historical reasons.
* Out of time. Moving this discussion to a public issue.

### [Scheduled release for December 23rd, 2017](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9712)

**Resolution**: @not-an-aardvark and @ilyavolodin will do the release on 2017-12-23.
