# 16-Feb-2017 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2017/02/16

## Attending

* Alberto Rodríguez (@alberto) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC

## Topics

### [Transferring eslint-canary to the eslint GitHub organization](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8032)

* Should we move eslint-canary into the ESLint org? If so, what criteria do we want to set for which projects should run in the regression build?
* :+1: to adopting the eslint-canary repository from @mysticatea, @not-an-aardvark, @alberto, @btmills, @kaicataldo. None against.
* Some concern about build times if regression build is included in CI or release builds.
* Q: How do we handle expected breakage due to bug fixes in minor releases? A: Temporarily disable a rule or file.
* Q: How do we handle unexpected breakage in a project (not due to a regression)? A: Projects can reference the master branch or a specific commit; they are currently on a specific commit.
* :+1: to nightly regression builds, keeping the project list static, and revisiting when we have more experience from @not-an-aardvark, @kaicataldo, @gyandeeps, @btmills, @alberto, @mysticatea. None against.

**Resolution:**

* We will move the eslint-canary repository into the ESLint organization.
* Run the tests nightly to begin with and keep the project list static.
* Revisit after we've tried it out for a few weeks.

### [Support JSCS requirePaddingNewLineAfterBlocks functionality](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/7356)

* `requirePaddingNewLineAfterBlocks` is a JSCS rule and one that is often requested.
* There are currently two proposals:
* [newline-after-blocks](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/7356#issuecomment-279250710) that is a more or less straightforward port of the original rule, also including classes and switches. It would avoid conflicting with other padding rules by ignoring certain situations (e.g when next statement is a return statement).
* [newline-between-statements](https://gist.github.com/mysticatea/1b74f00c4b88aa45767226ce63b4a524#file-newline-between-statements-md) which is a more general rule that deals with padding between statements. It would replace `newline-before-return`, `newline-after-var` and `lines-around-directive`.
* Which rule should we accept, if any?
* newline-between-statements would be a bigger change in configuration, but it is also expected to be more powerful.
* :+1: in favor of newline-between-statements from @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @ilyavolodin, @alberto, and @mysticatea. None against.

**Resolution:**

* We will accept the newline-between-statements proposal as a new rule.
