# 31-Aug-2017 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2017/08/31

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC

## Topics

### [no-console rule should ignore assignment](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/7806)

* TSC Summary: This issue proposes making `no-console` less strict by only having it report *calls* to `console` methods, rather than reporting any property access on `console`.
* TSC Question: Should we accept this issue?
* @nzakas' [comment](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/7806#issuecomment-269518852) suggested an option for this, enabled by default.
* This could also be accomplished using `no-restricted-syntax`, so we could just add a note to the docs.
* Everyone in attendence was ambivalent, so adding a note about `no-restricted-syntax` to the docs involves the least code.
* :+1: to noting the `no-restricted-syntax` alternative in the docs from @ilyavolodin, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @kaicataldo, @gyandeeps

**Resolution**: We will not accept the code enhancement, preferring instead to note the `no-restricted-syntax` alternative in the documentation.

### [Using ESlint in the browser](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8348)

* TSC Summary: This issue proposes adding official support for running ESLint in a browser. It seems like only a small change would be needed for this to work.
* TSC Question: Should we accept this issue?
* Browserify already works, but changes need to be made to work with Webpack.
* The team is wary of lots of potential rabbit holes here.
* Proposal to say "We don't officially support browser bundling, but we'll consider accepting changes that make it easier if they're not too ugly."
* :+1: from @btmills, @ilyavolodin, @not-an-aardvark, @kaicataldo, @gyandeeps

**Resolution**: We do not officially support bundling for the browser, but we'll consider accepting changes that make it easier if they're not too ugly.

### [Glob override configs do not support "extends"](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8813)

* TSC Summary: This issue proposes adding support for using `overrides` and `extends` together. From https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8813#issuecomment-311458360, the proposal is that globs in extended config files should be resolved from the location of the "direct config" (i.e. the last config that was resolved from the filesystem rather than an `extends` chain).
* TSC Question: Should we accept this proposal (at least tentatively, pending an implementation)?
* @travi left an [excellent comment](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8813#issuecomment-323247947) that differentiates between `extends` inside `overrides` vs `overrides` inside shareable configs:
* Supporting `extends` from inside `overrides` should be pretty simple and easy (and biggest bang for the buck)
* Supporting `overrides` inside shareable configs can be addressed later separately
* :+1: to supporting `extends` inside `overrides` from @btmills, @ilyavolodin, @kaicataldo, @not-an-aardvark, @gyandeeps
* Prefer to hold off on `overrides` inside shareable configs until the above portion is implemented

**Resolution**: We will only accept `extends` inside `overrides` for now.

### [add eslint version to error output](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9037)

* TSC Summary: The purpose of this proposed change is to add the ESLint current version to configuration error output from the CLI.
* TSC Agenda: Should we accept this proposal?
* Should we also add path information?
* :+1: to adding version from @not-an-aardvark, @gyandeeps, @btmills, @ilyavolodin, @kaicataldo

**Resolution**: We will add the version to configuration error output and file an issue proposing showing path information as well.

### [Update: allow autofixing when using processors (fixes #7510)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/9090)

* TSC Summary: This issue proposes allowing autofixing to occur when using processors, by having processors modify autofix locations as necessary as part of the postprocess method.
* TSC Question: Should we accept this proposal? If so, should we make this available to processors by default, or add an opt-in for a processor to declare that it supports autofixing?
* There's also some discussion around wanting to revamp processor configuration in #7510, so we might want to delay this change until after that is done.
* Tabling this discussion for the next meeting.

### [Scheduled release for September 1st, 2017](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9137)

**Resolution**: @not-an-aardvark and @ilyavolodin will do the release.
