# 01-Jun-2017 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2017/06/01

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC

## Topics

### [Update: Add Fixer method to Linter API](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/8631)

* Move `Fixer` from `CLIEngine` to `Linter` to support autofix outside of the CLI.
* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @kaicataldo, @ilyavolodin, @mysticatea, @btmills

**Resolution**: The proposal is accepted.

### [New: Allow parsers to supply Visitor Keys/Fallback](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/8582)

* Rather than predetermining what AST nodes are traversed for everyone, allow parsers to specify `VisitorKeys`.
* Long-term goal is to move scope analysis out of ESLint core and into parsers.
* This adds first-class support for what was previously done by monkey-patching `visitorKeys`.
* Monkey-patching `eslint-scope` would still be necessary.
* :+1: from @ilyavolidin, @mysticatea, @btmills, @not-an-aardvark
* @gyandeeps abstains

**Resolution**: If this proposal will add `visitorKeys` to the return value of `parseForESLint` and the performance impacts are negligible, then we mark it as accepted.

### [Allow parsers to supply their own Visitor Keys to estraverse/eslint-scope](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8392)

* Not clear on what the discussion is here.
* Postponing until a concrete proposal is available.
* :+1: from @ilyavolodin, @btmills, @mysticatea, @gyandeeps, @not-an-aardvark

**Resolution**: Request a summarized proposal for both this and the previous `visitorKeys` agenda item.

### [Scheduled Release for June 2, 2017](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8627)

**Resolution**: @btmills and @ilyavolodin will do the release

### [Avoiding rescheduled TSC meetings]

* Options include:
  * Move meetings to a weekend
  * Change meeting rules to require fewer members present
  * Change rules to allow more changes to be decided outside of meetings
  * Make more decisions asynchronously outside of meetings
* Proposal to open an issue for further discussion.
* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @ilyavolodin, @btmills, @gyandeeps, @mysticatea

**Resolution**: Open an issue to come up with a proposal to be approved in the next meeting.
