# 11-May-2017 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2017/05/11

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC

## Topics

### [Breaking: Add .jsx to the default --ext file extensions (fixes #8399) #8515](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/8515)

* TSC Question: Should ESLint lint .jsx files by default?
* It's too easy to accidentally leave out files while trying to specify which files you actually do want to lint.
* Can we enable extensions automatically when a preprocessor claims to support it?
* :+1: to resolution from @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @kaicataldo, @ilyavolodin, @gyandeeps (@mysticatea was not in attendance when this vote was held)

**Resolution**: Punt on this issue for v4, create an alternate proposal (to enable extensions automatically when a plugin/parser supports it) and re-evaluate after the new issues has been discussed.

### [Allow ignoring paths via package.json #8458](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8458)

* TSC Question: Should ESLint add an `eslintIgnore` key to package.json?
* :+1: to resolution from @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @kaicataldo, @ilyavolodin, @gyandeeps, @mysticatea
* **Resolution**: Accept this feature without support for cascading.

### [eslint.linter API exposes global mutable state](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8454)

* TSC Question: Should ESLint support this?
* :+1: to resolution from @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @kaicataldo, @ilyavolodin, @gyandeeps, @mysticatea
* **Resolution**: Accept this issue and merge it as part of the 4.0 release (supporting the old API for now), discuss and figure out if this is breaking in the issue.

### [Update: support multiple fixes in a report (fixes #7348)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/8101)

* TSC Question: Should ESLint support multiple fixes in a report?
* :+1: to resolution from @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @kaicataldo, @ilyavolodin, @gyandeeps, @mysticatea
* **Resolution**: Accept this feature.

### [What should we do with the eslint/doctrine repo?](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/44#issuecomment-296799507)

* TSC Question: What should we do about the eslint/doctrine repo? There are several open issues and PRs that haven't received a response. I think we should clarify the status of the repo and decide whether we're currently accepting enhancements/bugfixes.
* :+1: to resolution from @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @kaicataldo, @ilyavolodin, @gyandeeps, @mysticatea
* **Resolution**: We should make an effort to involve more people and actively maintain it for now.
