# 12-Oct-2017 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2017/10/12

## Attending

* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC

## Topics

### [Nominating @Aladdin-ADD as a Committer](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/59#issuecomment-330764141)

* @not-an-aardvark nominates @Aladdin-ADD as a Committer.
* :+1: from @kaicataldo, @ilyavolodin, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea, and @btmills.

**Resolution**: @Aladdin-ADD is added as a Committer.

### [Nominating @VictorHom as a Committer](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/59#issuecomment-332645023)

* @ilyavolodin nominates @VictorHom as a Committer.
* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @kaicataldo, @mysticatea, @ilyavolodin, and @btmills.

**Resolution**: @VictorHom is added as a Committer.

### [Nominating a representative to the JSF Technical Advisory Committee](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/59#issuecomment-332645626)

* Now that ESLint is going through JSFoundation graduation process (https://github.com/JSFoundation/TAC/pull/25#pullrequestreview-64709448) we will get to nominate a representative to JSF Technical Advisory Committee.
* @not-an-aardvark suggests @ilyavolodin, who is willing.
* :+1: from @kaicataldo, @btmills, and @mysticatea.
* @kaicataldo requests more insight into the JSF process. @ilyavolodin will forward emails to the maintainers mailing list.

**Resolution**: @ilyavolodin will represent ESLint on the JSF Technical Advisory Committee.

### [Use strict equality comparisons in RuleTester](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9417)

* **TSC Summary**: This proposes using strict equality checks in `RuleTester` rather than loose equality checks. It would be a breaking change.
* **TSC Question**: Should we accept this proposal?
* :+1: from @btmills, @kaicataldo, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea, and @ilyavolodin.

**Resolution**: We will change `RuleTester` to check strict equality in the next major release.

### [Update: Don't ignore comments (no-trailing-spaces)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/9416)

* `no-trailing-spaces` currently ignores comments, but the intended default behavior according to the documentation is to check comments.
* Changing the default behavior to check comments would result in more errors.
* This behavior change could impact a significant number of projects.
* We reserve the right to ship bug fixes that increase errors in minor releases.
* Should we ship this change in a minor or major release?
* @ilyavolodin, @kaicataldo, @mysticatea, @not-an-aardvark, and @btmills in favor of shipping in a minor release as a bug fix.

**Resolution**: We will make this change as a bug fix in a minor release.

### [Separate exit code for error](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9384)

* **TSC Summary:** It is not desirable that an automated script cannot easily tell the difference between a lint failure and when ESLint itself fails for other reasons. Suggestion is to use different nonzero exit codes for those scenarios. However, in the past this has been identified as a painful change for users.
* **TSC Question:** Could we consider adding this in a major release (i.e., for 5.0)?
* There are three possible types of errors:
  1. Reported linting problems
  1. Fatal configuration errors
  1. Unexpected crashes
* It's not always possible to distinguish between the latter two categories, for example when a rule's configuration includes a selector.
* @ilyavolodin is not convinced the breaking change is justified, but will not vote against it.

**Resolution**: Postpone a decision for now to see what @nzakas and @gyandeeps think.

### [Proposal: defer rule listener calls until after traversal is complete](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9122)

* **TSC Summary**: This issue proposes updating traversal logic to call rule listeners after all nodes have a `parent` property. The issue was previously accepted by the TSC, but it was reverted because there was some compatibility impact (a plugin was relying on the fact that the AST is non-circular, and another plugin was relying on the parent property not existing in some cases).
* **TSC Question**: Should we schedule this as a breaking change in v5.0.0?
* :+1: from @ilyavolodin, @mysticatea, @kaicataldo, @not-an-aardvark, and @btmills.

**Resolution**: This is accepted as a breaking change for the v5.0.0 release.

### [Transfer eslint-canary ownership to JSFoundation](https://github.com/eslint/eslint-canary/issues/9)

* Kris Borchers from JSF has given us two paths forward to fully resolve the IP/ownership issues around this repository:
  1. Declare "Copyright contributors" in the copyright file and do nothing further (JSF will not assert copyright and does not need to)
  1. Do a full IP assignment of this repository to JSF, which requires all committers so far (3 at last count) to fill out paperwork of some sort. Then declare "Copyright JS Foundation and other contributors", same as ESLint itself.
* Which path do we want to take in order to finish (legally) transferring ownership of this repository?
* @not-an-aardvark feels not transferring copyright would be easier, and @ilyavolodin agrees it's not necessary.
* @not-an-aardvark, @ilyavolodin, @kaicataldo, @mysticatea, @btmills all in favor of leaving copyright as-is.

**Resolution**: Copyright will be kept as-is and not transferred to JSF.

### [Proposal: `reportUnusedDisableDirectives` in config files](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9382)

* **TSC Summary**: This issue proposes adding `reportUnusedDisableDirectives` property into the configuration (e.g. `.eslintrc`). This would help to set the setting for all of command-line, CI builds, and the editor/IDE of developers at once.
* **TSC Question**:
  1. Should we accept this feature?
  2. Should we make this setting available in sharable configs? @mysticatea thinks it's necessary, but @not-an-aardvark has a concern.
    I [@mysticatea] have a compromise that only `off` and `warn` are available in sharable configs to avoid breaking CI builds by the sharable config's setting and patch releases of ESLint.
* Enabling this could cause semver-patch ESLint upgrades to fail lint if we fix a false positive that was previously silenced by a disable directive.
* Shareable configs that enable this could opt-in a user who doesn't want the above behavior.
* We could force this to a warning if it's enabled by a shareable config, but it could still fail lint if used in conjunction with the `--max-warnings` flag.
* Want to provide a migration path from `eslint-comments/no-unused-disable`, which will also allow us to remove some code in core that currently exists to permit monkey-patching this behavior.

**Resolution**: Out of time, postponing to next meeting.
