# 16-Mar-2017 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2017/03/16

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Alberto Rodríguez (@alberto) - TSC

## Topics

### [Remove `ecmaFeatures` from `eslint:recommended`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/8239)

* The eslint:recommended should no longer export ecmaFeatures in its parserOptions, since that has been deprecated by espree long ago. The purpose of this PR is to remove ecmaFeatures. However, a concern was raised that any custom or plugin rules may rely on context.ecmaFeatures which could trip people up who are using eslint:recommended without being aware of this. I (platinumazure) labeled this as a potentially breaking change, with the idea that if the team disagrees, the label can be removed and this could be labeled as a chore.
* Should this change be merged only with a major release, or can we safely merge it as a chore?
* Other modifications to `eslint:recommended` are breaking changes, so this should be too.
* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @kaicataldo, @btmills, @mysticatea

**Resolution**: We will do this as a breaking change in the next major release.

### [Convert externally-exposed modules to ES6 classes](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8231)

* Some modules like `RuleTester` and `CLIEngine` expose a class-like pattern, but they're not actually ES6 classes. In https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/7849 and https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/7846, we discussed converting them to ES6 classes, but we decided this would be a breaking change if someone was using the APIs in undocumented ways (e.g. calling `SourceCode` without `new`). Since this change would affect very few users and would make the code easier to maintain, I think we should convert them to ES6 classes for 4.0.0.
* This is a potentially breaking change, so must be approved by TSC.
* :+1: from @ilyavolodin, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea, @btmills, @kaicataldo

**Resolution**: The breaking change is approved.

### [Proposal: validate eslintrc's properties](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8213)

* Proposal is to throw an error when the config is invalid (when a property type value is wrong or the property is unknown, since it probably means there is a configuration error
* Should we accept it? If so, do we want to check only top-level options or also inner ones (parserOptions and ecmaFeatures)?
* Some options cannot be known in advance (e.g. parser options or `settings`), but we can validate top-level options (e.g. `env`, `extends`, `rules`).
* :+1: from @kaicataldo, @btmills, @mysticatea, @not-an-aardvark

**Resolution**: We will accept the issue and only check top-level properites.

### [Breaking: `RuleTester` ensures tests in fixable rules define `output`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/8204)

* `RuleTester` doesn't currently enforce that tests for fixable rules contain output. It's easy to missing the lack of the output property in a test. This can cause some tests output being unintentionally not checked.
* The reason for adding it by default is autofixable rules are sensitive, so I want people writing them to fall into the pit of success, and explicitly opt-out of declaring output in tests.
* Note we already have a way to tell the code doesn't change (`output: null`). We could also make an explicit (`output: undefined`) to skip checking the output, if we think it is needed.
* Should we add a way to enforce this? If so, should it be the default?
* This change would mostly affect plugin authors.
* `eslint-plugin-eslint-plugin` has a lint rule for this, but it has some limitations due to static analysis.
* :-1: to doing this in v4.0 from @ilyavolodin, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @kaicataldo

**Resolution**: We're tabling this for now to discuss alternative options on the issue thread.

### [Infer the endLocation of a problem from the reported node](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8004)

* As currently implemented, the `endLine` and `endColumn` report API is tedious to use, because it only works if a report includes a `loc` key. As a result, most rules don't use this API, because they report a node instead of an explicit location. We could update core to infer the `endLine` and `endColumn` of a reported node, but this would be a breaking change because it could cause a poor user experience in some existing editor integrations (e.g. if hundreds of lines are highlighted because a large node is reported).
* Should we make this change?
* Ideally we should be passing this information.
* Editor integrations could decide on their own whether a node is too large to report entirely.
* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @kaicataldo, @mysticatea

**Resolution**: We will accept this issue and report full data.

### [New: Add no-array-destructured-return rule (fixes #6054)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/7989)

* Some team members have expressed concern that this rule is reporting on the array-destructuring of a FunctionExpression's returned value, but it would make more sense to report on the ReturnStatement instead. Basically, instead of reporting here:

	```js
	const [foo, bar] = baz();
	```

	It would report here:

	```js
	function baz() {
	    return [foo, bar]; // <-- here
	}
	```

* However, if we report on the ReturnStatement, _this rule won't be 1:1 with the corresponding JSCS rule_, which might be painful for users migrating from JSCS.
* Should we merge this rule as-is so we can have a 1:1 rule with JSCS, or should we favor a rule that reports on the return statement instead? If we merge the rule as-is, should we create a proposal for a separate rule that reports on the return statement?
* How do we differentiate between array return values (allowed) and tuple return values (not allowed)?
* This comes from JSCS, but we have decided not to drop JSCS rules before.
* Not having this rule isn't preventing someone from running ESLint on their codebase - it's a false negative. If it were a false positive currently, the compatibility question would be different.
* :+1: to @ilyavolodin's proposal to table this issue from @kaicataldo, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @mysticatea

**Resolution**: We will table this issue until the next meeting.

### 4.0 release planning

* We should start planning 4.0 release. The task is to go over all of the issues we feel like should be in 4.0 release and see where they are, and if anything is stopping us from completing them.
* Are we ready to do the first 4.0 RC tomorrow?
* @kaicataldo, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @mysticatea against the first 4.0 RC tomorrow

**Resolution**: We will revisit readiness for a 4.0 RC at the next meeting. In the meantime, update the 4.0 tracking issue with progress.

### `indent` rewrite

* We have three options for the `indent` rewrite:

	1. Check it in as new `indent`. Rename current `indent` to `indent-legacy` and deprecate it
	2. Check it in as `indentation` and deprecate `indent`
	3. Override indent in place

* @ilyavolodin, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @kaicataldo, @mysticatea, @albertoin favor of option 1

**Resolution**: Rename the current rule to `indent-legacy` and deprecate it. This will be a breaking change, as the rewritten rule will keep the `indent` name.

### Google Summer of Code collaboration with Babel

* @hzoo [tweeted](https://twitter.com/left_pad/status/836684105756573698) that Babel was accepted into Google Summer of Code, and that he was looking for other projects to partner with.
* Is there anything we can team up with Babel team on that would benefit both projects?
* Perhaps getting Babylon's ESTree output working with babel-eslint?

**Resolution**: Tabling for now to see if we have any other ideas later.
