# 30-Mar-2017 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2017/03/30

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Alberto Rodríguez (@alberto) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC

## Topics

### [Nomination of @soda0289 as a Committer](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/39#issuecomment-287552974)

* Nominated by @JamesHenry
* He has brought a great deal of passion and support to the typescript-eslint-parser and related projects, and I think he would make a great addition to the team!
* :+1: from @btmills, @not-an-aardvark, @alberto, @kaicataldo, @mysticatea, @ilyavolodin

**Resolution**: Accept @soda0289 as a Comitter

### [Detach eslint/eslint-scope fork from estools/escope](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/39#issuecomment-287568975)

* Currently, the eslint/eslint-scope repo is classified as a "fork" on GitHub, so the estools/escope repo is still the default target for pull requests. This is confusing for contributors (they always need to manually change the base branch in order to contribute to the fork), and it's also probably annoying for the maintainers of estools/escope to get accidental pull requests.
* I contacted GitHub support about how to fix this, and they told me that they would be able to detach eslint/eslint-scope and make it a standalone repo without all of the issues getting deleted. The existing forks of eslint-scope could continue to point to eslint-scope, or we could choose to reparent them back to estools/escope.
* TSC Question: Should we detach the eslint/eslint-scope repo?
* :+1: from @kaicataldo, @alberto, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @mysticatea, @ilyavolodin
* Forks of eslint-scope should point to eslint-scope, not escope

**Resolution**: Contact GitHub support and ask them to detach eslint-scope from escope

### [Add Import/Export Declaration checks to `indent`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/8343)

* TSC Summary: This PR introduces new option for indent rule. The code is well-written and seems to be correct. However this rule is going to be deprecated once 4.0 is released.
* TSC Question: Do we want to accept and merge this PR before we start 4.0 release cycle?
* The rewritten `indent` rule checks this case by default.
* :-1: from @alberto, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills. No strong objections to closing without merging.

**Resolution**: We will not accept the issue.

### [Breaking: report file not found errors](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/7395)

* Since #1296 and #1831, ESLint should throw errors if the given file did not be found. But ESLint does nothing (then exits with zero) since v1.4.0 due to the glob pattern support.
* ESLint shows nothing if target files have no problem, too. So the users cannot distinguish between no problem and typo from the result.
* This PR changes the behavior about patterns which match no file. If there are one or more patterns which match no file, ESLint will throw a fatal error.
* Currently, linting `tsets/**/*.js` (notice the typo) appears to succeed, even though no files in `tests` were linted.
* Other options include showing a warning instead of throwing a fatal error or throwing the error only if no files were linted by any patterns rather than any single pattern.
* Partial solutions for checking only some patterns are undesirable because they could cause confusion when some patterns are checked and others aren't.
* :+1: to tabling for later from @kaicataldo, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @alberto, @mysticatea, @ilyavolodin

**Resolution**: Tabling for now. It will not be included in the 4.0 release, but we will continue discussion in the issue for possible inclusion in a future 5.0 release.

### [Allow output when fixes are automatically applied](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/7404)

* Right now if you run with --fix and eslint only finds fixable issues, it will output nothing and exit with code 0.
* We want to show some sort of indication that fixes were applied.
* This was accepted in theory by a previous TSC meeting, but we're not yet sure what the best path forward is.
* Do we postpone this from 4.0?
* :+1: to postponing from @not-an-aardvark, @kaicataldo, @btmills, @alberto, @mysticatea

**Resolution**: We will do the 4.0 release without this change unless it is ready by the time the release is ready.

### [Remove `global` object property from API](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/8295)

* TSC Summary: `eslint.verify` accepts a `global` object property as a fallback from `globals`. Note this is not used for command-line arguments, which are stored in `astGlobals`. See [#8295 (comment)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/8295#discussion_r107405716) for details.
* TSC Question: Should we remove this?
* This only affects integrations and plugins developers, but not users.
* :+1: to removal from @ilyavolodin, @kaicataldo, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea, @btmills, @alberto

**Resolution**: Remove this from the API and RuleTester.

### [Update eslint:recommended for 4.0.0](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8236)

* [`no-useless-escape`](http://eslint.org/docs/rules/no-useless-escape)
* [`no-template-curly-in-string`](http://eslint.org/docs/rules/no-template-curly-in-string)
* [`no-compare-neg-zero`](http://eslint.org/docs/rules/no-compare-neg-zero)
* [`array-callback-return`](http://eslint.org/docs/rules/array-callback-return)
* Replace [`no-negated-in-lhs`](http://eslint.org/docs/rules/no-negated-in-lhs) (deprecated) with [`no-unsafe-negation`](http://eslint.org/docs/rules/no-unsafe-negation)
* Replace [`no-native-reassign`](http://eslint.org/docs/rules/no-native-reassign) (deprecated) with [`no-global-assign`](http://eslint.org/docs/rules/no-global-assign)
* :+1: from @kaicataldo, @btmills, @not-an-aardvark, @alberto, @ilyavolodin
* Some concern about `no-template-curly-in-string` due to template libraries using `${ }`, so @kaicataldo will research this and report back.

**Resolution**: The changes are accepted. If a library is found that uses the `${ }` syntax, we will exclude only `no-template-curly-in-string`.

### 4.0 release planning

1. Do we want to do a 3.x release tomorrow?
    * There have been a number of changes since the previous 3.x release.
    * :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @kaicataldo, @alberto, @mysticatea, @btmills
	* **Resolution**: @not-an-aardvark and @btmills will do a 3.x release on March 31st and cut a 3.x branch on the following Monday.
1. Do we want to do a 4.x pre-release tomorrow?
    * Instead, let's start merging breaking changes after a potential patch release on Monday and do a 4.0 pre-release a week from tomorrow.
	* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @alberto, @mysticatea, @ilyavolodin, @kaicataldo
	* **Resolution**: @ilyavolodin and @kaicataldo will do a 4.0 pre-release on April 7th.
1. Should the 4.0 pre-release be alpha, beta, or RC?
	* Prefer an alpha release first since there's no need to rush things.
	* :+1: from @btmills, @not-an-aardvark, @kaicataldo, @alberto, @ilyavolodin
	* **Resolution**: The first 4.0 pre-release will be an alpha.

### Remaining issues

The remaining issues were tabled until the next meeting due to time constraints.
