# 07-Dec-2017 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2017/12/07

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* alberto (@alberto) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC

## Topics

### [Proposal: Add URL for a rule's documentation to the API](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/6582)

* **TSC Summary**: This proposal suggests adding docs.uri/docs.url to meta property of each built-in rule with the link to rule's documentation.
* **TSC Question**: Do we accept this proposal?
* Q: What happens when docs change between versions?
* A: Versioned links could solve this. How important is that vs how hard is it to implement? Let's leave versioned docs out of this particular change. We can address that later if necessary.
* Q: Do we need to expose rule metadata in CLIEngine? We don't want people to start using the undocumented `cliEngine.linter.getRules()` method.
* A: Add a `getRules()` instance method to `CLIEngine`. Currently it will pass through to the method on the internal `linter` instance.
* :+1: from @ilyavolodin, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea, @btmills, @kaicataldo, @alberto, @gyandeeps
* :+1: from @platinumazure with reservations about whether `CLIEngine` is the best place to put it.

**Resolution**: Accept the proposal and add a new `getRules` instance method to `CLIEngine`.

### [Update: Improve parser integrations (fixes #8392)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/8755)

* **TSC Summary**
* The purpose of this feature is that it makes people being possible to make custom parsers which can handle experimental/enhancement syntaxes without monkey patching.
* This feature allows custom parsers return `scopeManager` and `visitorKeys`.
* The `scopeManager` is a `ScopeManager` object. Custom parsers can use custom scope analysis for experimental/enhancement syntax (e.g. `do` expressions, decorators, type definitions, type references, ...). If a custom parser returns `scopeManager`, ESLint uses it. Otherwise, ESLint analyzes scope by using `eslint-scope` as same as current.
* The `visitorKeys` is an object to customize AST traversing. If a custom parser returns `visitorKeys`, ESLint uses it in `eslint-scope` and traversing logic. Otherwise, `KEYS` of `eslint-visitor-keys` is used.
* To tell custom parsers that ESLint supports `scopeManager` and `visitorKeys`, now `parserOptions` has `eslintVisitorKeys:true` and `eslintScopeManager:true` as similar to `range:true` and something like.
* As a side effect, now `SourceCode` class has new properties `parserServices`, `scopeManager`, and `visitorKeys`. Because `linter.verify` accepts a `SourceCode` object as the first argument instead of text and skips parsing. `SourceCode` object must have all of the parsing result.
* I confirmed that I can implement `babel-eslint` with this feature and without monkey patching: [babel/babel-eslint#542](https://github.com/babel/babel-eslint/pull/542)
* **TSC Question**: Should we accept this issue?
* This will need plenty of documentation, preferably with examples.
* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @ilyavolodin, @platinumazure, @kaicataldo, @btmills, @alberto, @mysticatea
* @gyandeeps abstains.

**Resolution**: The proposal is accepted.

### [Reevaluate decision to skip running rules when linting whitespace-only files](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9534)

* **TSC Summary**: This is a proposal to change ESLint's behavior when it encounters a file that only contains whitespace. Currently, ESLint ignores whitespace-only files by design. However, this design choice arguably makes things more confusing now due to some changes in ESLint, so this issue proposes removing the special case.
* **TSC Question**: Should we remove the special case for whitespace-only files?
* @not-an-aardvark: When we discussed this last meeting, we postponed a decision so that we could gather more data about how many rules this would break. I collected some data and posted the results in https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9534#issuecomment-343393032 .
* Q: `eol-last` is the only user-exposed rule that will fail with its default options on empty files. Should we add a special case?
* A: `eol-last`'s job is to make sure that the last line of content ends in a newline. Warning on empty files is unrelated, so we should add an exception.
* Not all possible configs were tested in @not-an-aardvark's analysis. Look into ways to test more configs to find potential crashes. For example, `strict` in `global` mode will fail for empty files.
* :+1: from @mysticatea, @alberto, @gyandeeps, @platinumazure, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills

**Resolution**: This proposal is accepted as a breaking change.

### [Should we rename "beginner" label to "good first issue"?](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9609)

* **TSC Summary**:
* Per [this article](https://help.github.com/articles/helping-new-contributors-find-your-project-with-labels/) on GitHub Help, it seems that GitHub is flagging issues with the "help wanted" or "good first issue" label for new contributors.
* We're already using "help wanted", and "beginner" seems semantically equivalent. So I'd like to propose changing the label from "beginner" to "good first issue" to take advantage. (Also, as a small side benefit, it avoids any risk that the "beginner" label could seem pejorative to someone who has experience coding but has not contributed to this repository before.)
* **TSC Question**: Should we do this for the ESLint repo? Should we do this for other repos in the ESLint organization?
* :+1: from @kaicataldo, @platinumazure, @btmills, @mysticatea, @not-an-aardvark, @alberto, @ilyavolodin, @gyandeeps

**Resolution**: We will rename the "beginner" label to "good first issue".

### [Transfarring eslint-cli to eslint organization](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9602)

* **TSC Summary:**
* [eslint-cli] is the package which provides CLI command `eslint` which finds local-installed ESLint and runs it. I would like to transfer [eslint-cli] to [eslint organization](https://github.com/eslint).
* I think that [eslint-cli] improves https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/6732#issuecomment-340708991 with updating "Getting started" page. This transferring would make peace of mind to users as the tool is supported by the eslint team.
* I don't worry about copyrights because all commits of eslint-cli are mine and all dependencies are MIT license.
* **TSC Question:** Do we accept this proposal?
* @not-an-aardvark is concerted it could cause confusion that both `eslint` and `eslint-cli` are both runnable globally but behave differently.
* This question has come up many times, and we still don't have a good answer. For now, tabling discussion about moving this functionality into core so we can discuss just moving the project into the organization.
* Tabling discussion until the next meeting due to time.
* @ilyavolodin has a proposal for this and will create a GitHub discussion for it.

[eslint-cli]: https://github.com/mysticatea/eslint-cli
