# 13-Apr-2017 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2017/04/13

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC

## Topics

### [Remove array-callback-return from recommended](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8428)

* TSC Summary: With the release of 4.0.0-alpha.0, users are confused about the array-callback-return rule when it flags false positives. A question has been raised about whether a rule that can cause confusion via false positives should be in eslint:recommended.
* TSC Question: Should we remove array-callback-return from eslint:recommended?
* Many prefer that the `eslint:recommended` rules be safe to enable with very little chance of false positives.
* The counterpoint is that this rule could help newer users in most cases, and users of APIs that cause false positives could disable the rule.
* :+1: to removal from @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea, @btmills, @kaicataldo, @ilyavolodin
* :-1: from @gyandeeps

**Resolution**: `array-callback-return` will be removed from `eslint:recommended`.

### [Add no-array-destructured-return rule](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/7989)

* This was discussed in the previous TSC meeting, but we tabled it for the next meeting without reaching a resolution. There were two primary points of contention:
* 1. How do we differentiate between an array and a tuple? The styleguide rule on which the JSCS rule was based discourages only the latter case, but the rule catches both.
* 2. The JSCS rule looks at call sites, whereas return sites would be the better place to warn. We should either rename the rule to indicate that it checks call sites or change the rule to make it look at return statements.
* Do we need this rule in the first place?
* We've decided before against including a rule for JSCS compatibility.
* @btmills, @gyandeeps, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea, @ilyavolodin all in favor of not including `no-array-destructured-return`

**Resolution**: We will not include `no-array-destructured-return`. Checking of return sites can be discussed in a separate issue.

### [Deprecate `sourceCode.getComments()`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8408)

* @kaicataldo moved comment attachment into core for v4.0, including a mostly-compatible `getComments` implementation.
* We now have much better APIs for accessing comments than simple `leading`/`trailing` buckets.
* This would deprecate `getComments` in favor of the more specific APIs.
* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea, @btmills, @ilyavolodin, @kaicataldo, @gyandeeps

**Resolution**: The `getComments` API will be deprecated in v4.0.

### [Allow parsers to supply their own Visitor Keys](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8392)

* There are several node type's that currently do not get traversed when using parsers such as Babel or Typescript . These include Type Parameters, and Decorators.
* I (@soda0289) believe we should define an API in eslint to modify the Visitor Keys for estraverse and eslint-scope.
* This would then allow parser's to pass in visitor keys using the parser services and eliminate the need for monkey patching or supporting experimental ecma features.

**Resolution**: Postponing further discussion until a more detailed proposal is available.

### [Using ESLint in the browser](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8348)

* TSC Summary: Number of online editors is growing, and they do not have a good way to support ESLint, since we don't officially support browser environments. While we do have a build script to browserify ESLint, it's not possible to use Webpack to package ESLint for browsers without changes.
* TSC Question: Should we support browsers (and Webpack)? If so, should we make it very clear that it's a low priority for our team, and fixes will only going to be done if somebody outside of the team will submit PRs against them?
* There are two completely independent issues here:
* 1. We have no WebEngine, so we can't use autofixes in browser
* 2. Our code is structured in a way that prevents people from using WebPack to package our code for web. Browserify still works.
* Proposal for what WebEngine would look like (or an alternative approach) needs more discussion.

**Resolution**: Discuss implementation in greater detail on the issue and come back later with more information.

### [Scheduled release for April 14, 2017](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8404)

* TSC Summary: Need to schedule two people for this release, per usual procedure. Also, need to determine if we want to have this release on April 14th (to get back in line with TSC meetings) or to push it out a week or two.
* TSC Question: When should this release occur? Should it be regarded as an alpha or beta release? Who wants to sign up for this release?
* Proposal to get the remaining breaking changes in and do a second alpha release in a week on 4/21, hoping to begin the beta releases after that.
* :+1: from @ilyavolodin, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @kaicataldo, @mysticatea

**Resolution**: @not-an-aardvark and @kaicataldo will do the second alpha release on 4/21.
