# 05-Jan-2017 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2017/01/05

## Attending

* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* alberto (@alberto) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

## Topics

### [Allow regexes in RuleTester](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/7837)

* TSC Summary: proposal is to allow regular expressions in RuleTester for testing that error messages are correct. Anywhere a string is currently supported for this purpose should also accept a regex.
* TSC Question: do we want to accept this enhancement?
* :+1: from @mysticatea, @kaicataldo, @btmills, @alberto, @ilyavolodin

**Resolution**: We will accept this enhancement.

### [Ignore parameter assignments to specific variables with no-param-reassign enabled](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/6505)

* TSC Summary: This proposal is for a new rule option for no-param-reassign (name and exact implementation still being bikeshedded). In Angular, Express, and Chrome extensions (among other places), it is common and expected to mutate properties of function arguments. The new rule option takes in a list of identifiers (strings); when any of those identifiers shows up as a function parameter, assigning to a property of that identifier will not be flagged even with properties: true. Users can work around this by either fully disabling the rule or by using eslint-disable comments. Problem is that users may need to use lots of disable comments in order to realize the benefits of the rule in other situations.
* TSC Question: Should we accept this ~rule~ option?
* @ilyavolodin (TSC member) has already objected to the proposal but will not block it if everyone else is in favor.
* :+1: from @mysticatea, @alberto, @btmills, @kaicataldo

**Resolution**: We will accept the issue.
