# 20-Jul-2017 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2017/07/20

## Attending

* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC

## Topics

### [Scheduled release for July 21, 2017](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8921)

**Resolution**: @ilyavolodin and @btmills will do the release.

### [Update: add initial support for ES2018](https://github.com/eslint/espree/pull/348)

* TSC Summary: This PR adds an `ecmaVersion: 2018` option to espree, which enables all ES2018 syntax features that have reached stage 4. (Currently, only the template literal revision has reached stage 4.)
* TSC Question: Should we add this now, or should we wait until ES2018 is locked down next year?
* Breaking changes accepted by TC39 after a feature reaches stage 4 ought to be rare and would be unlikely to affect users
* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @mysticatea, @gyandeeps in favor of accepting features once they reach stage 4
* @ilyavolodin is impartial

**Resolution**: We will accept features once they reach stage 4.

### [Revisit deprecation policy](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8635)

* TSC Summary: A year ago, we decided to temporarily adopt a deprecation policy where we would commit to never removing deprecated rules, and we would also not maintain the deprecated rules. The trial period for that experiment has expired, so we should decide on a deprecation policy going forward.
* TSC Question: Should we continue with this deprecation policy?
* @not-an-aardvark, @ilyavolodin, @btmills, @gyandeeps, @mysticatea in favor of continuing the current policy of keeping but not maintaining deprecated rules.
* Will need to update http://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/rule-deprecation and http://eslint.org/docs/rules/#deprecated to close the issue.

**Resolution**: We will continue preserving but not maintaining deprecated rules and update the documentation accordingly.

### [Stop throwing for `ecmaFeatures`](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/51#issuecomment-315669556)

* Agenda item: I think we should consider treating ecmaFeatures in a config file as a no-op, rather than raising an error for it. (We would continue to raise an error for other unrecognized properties.)
* Motivation: A large number of old configs haven't removed this property since ESLint 2.0, when it stopped being functional. This is causing a lot of pain for users when upgrading, because they're often relying on a sharable config that has ecmaFeatures somewhere, and it's not easy to migrate the sharable config.
* Another option would be to raise a warning for ecmaFeatures in particular, rather than causing a fatal error.
* We want users to resolve problems in configs because vestigial `ecmaFeatures` could be just the first symptom of other problems
* On the other hand, waiting for the whole ecosystem to update after a major release is a pain, and some configs are completely unmaintained
* :+1: from @ilyavolodin, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @mysticatea, @gyandeeps for displaying a warning instead of throwing an error

**Resolution**: We will convert the `ecmaFeatures` error to a warning.

### Future features issue

* We always did "future features" issue after major version release, but we didn't do it this time
* Do we think we should create one, or not?

**Resolution**: @btmills will create a v5 milestone and brainstorming issue.
