# 09-Nov-2017 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2017/11/09

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* alberto (@alberto) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas Singh (@nzakas) - TSC

## Topics

### [Nominating @platinumazure to the TSC](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/59#issuecomment-330764141)

* @ilyavolodin nominates @platinumazure to join the TSC.
* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @mysticatea, @kaicataldo, @alberto.
* @nzakas abstains.

**Resolution**: @platinumazure is invited to join the TSC.

### [Reevaluate decision to skip running rules when linting whitespace-only files](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9534)

* **TSC Summary**: This is a proposal to change ESLint's behavior when it encounters a file that only contains whitespace. Currently, ESLint ignores whitespace-only files by design. However, this design choice arguably makes things more confusing now due to some changes in ESLint, so this issue proposes removing the special case.
* **TSC Question**: Should we remove the special case for whitespace-only files?
* Original proposal by @not-an-aardvark.
* Some rules make assumptions about the AST that empty input might invalidate.
* Linting empty files isn't necessarily the point of ESLint.
* A breaking change should have significant benefit for users.
* Not sure how many rules would break if we made this change.

**Resolution**: @not-an-aardvark will get more data about potential breakage for the next meeting.

### [Add package.json format option for eslint --init](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9379)

* **TSC Summary**: This issue proposes adding an selection in `eslint --init` to make ESLint create an `eslintConfig` property in `package.json`.
* **TSC Question**: Should we accept this issue?
* Do we need to match indentation? An [npm package](http://npm.im/json-preseve-indent) already exists if so.
* What happens if `package.json` doesn't exist?
* Don't want to be in the business of generating `package.json`.
* This is a nice-to-have, but nobody is strongly for it.
* @alberto, @kaicataldo, @nzakas, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea in favor of not accepting the change.

**Resolution**: We will not accept this change.

### [Support block-comment version of eslint-disable-line](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8781)

* **TSC Summary**: This issue proposes allowing `eslint-disable-line` and `eslint-disable-next-line` directives in block comments. This would be convenient for JSX, and would allow some external code processors to add disable comments more easily.
* **TSC Question**: Should we accept this proposal?
* @nzakas wonders if we can come up with something that will be useful everywhere, not just JSX.
* Some discussion of `/* eslint-disable-next-statement */`. @btmills feels this could cause more confusion than the existing workaround of wrapping in disable/enable block comments or the current proposal.
* Ignore line directives inside block comments that span multiple lines. We can consider warning on these in a major release.
* Merge multiple directives on the same line.
* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @alberto, @kaicataldo, @mysticatea

**Resolution**: The proposal is accepted under the above constraints.
