# 17-August-2017 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2017/08/17

## Attending

* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC

## Topics

### [Scheduled release for August 18, 2017](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9104)

**Resolution**: @ilyavolodin and @not-an-aardvark will do the release.

### [Update: allow parsers to be defined as object](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/9119)

* TSC Summary: This issue proposes allowing the parser in a config to be a parser object, rather than only allowing a string with a module name. This would allow integrations to specify custom parsers when using Linter, without needing to access the filesystem and put the parser in node_modules.
* TSC Question: Should we accept this proposal?
* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @ilyavolodin, @mysticatea, @gyandeeps, @kaicataldo

**Resolution**: We will accept the proposal.

### [Serve site over HTTPS](https://github.com/eslint/eslint.github.io/issues/374)

* TSC Summary: This issue proposes serving eslint.org through Cloudflare, which would allow us to serve the site over HTTPS for free (and avoid "not secure" warnings in upcoming versions of Chrome).
* TSC Question: Should we accept this proposal?
* Another option is to use Netlify as a replacement for GitHub pages, which would make Cloudflare unnecessary.

**Resolution**: We will use Cloudflare on the site, and discuss details on the issue. We can discuss moving from GitHub pages as a separate issue.

* :+1: from @gyandeeps, @not-an-aardvark, @kaicataldo, @mysticatea
* @ilyavolodin is unconvinced that this is necessary, but is not opposed.

### [Enabling the fix flag for stdio](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9076)

* TSC Summary: This issue proposes adding a `--fix-dry-run` flag to the CLI, which identical to the `--fix` flag except that it doesn't write the output to the filesystem. This would allow command-line integrations to autofix text when using the `--stdin` flag, by using `--fix-dry-run` in combination with a formatter like `json` that includes the `output` property.
* TSC Question: Should we accept this?
* Originally, `--fix` wasn't supported with `--stdin` because it doesn't make sense to write text to `stdin`, and there were concerns that autofix output would need to be distinguished from the formatter output.
* `--fix-dry-run` should address this because it doesn't write anything to the filesystem, and integrations can use a formatter like `json` that prints the autofix output.

**Resolution**: We will accept the issue, provided that it actually is feasible as described and there isn't something we're missing.

* :+1: from @ilyavolodin, @kaicataldo, @mysticatea, @not-an-aardvark, @gyandeeps

### [Supporting glob configs with "extends"](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8813)

* TSC Summary: This issue proposes adding support for using `overrides` and `extends` together. From https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8813#issuecomment-311458360, the proposal is that globs in extended config files should be resolved from the location of the "direct config" (i.e. the last config that was resolved from the filesystem rather than an `extends` chain).
* TSC Question: Should we accept this proposal (at least tentatively, pending an implementation)?
* There seems to be support for the general idea, although there is some uncertainty about the design details
* Several people are in favor of supporting `extends` clauses in `overrides` in the same config file, but there is less certainty about supporting `overrides` clauses in a config file which is resolved with `extends`.

**Resolution**: The discussion will be postponed until next meeting, and we will review the proposal in the issue.
