# 06-Jul-2017 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2017/07/06

## Attending

* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Alberto Rodríguez (@alberto) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Nicholas Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

## Topics

### [Difficulty of Reaching Quorum](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/49#issuecomment-311539680)

* Can we set a schedule and stick to it even if we don't reach quorum?
* And following up, what can we do to make it easier to reach quorum so we're not missing so many meetings?
* Leading up to the 4.0 release, we had more frequent meetings.
* Returning to a consistent schedule should help.
* Creating a sharing Google Calendar event for meetings will help remind everyone.
* Calendar invitation RSVPs will track planned attendance.

**Resolution**: @ilyavolodin will attach a calendar invite to the next TSC meeting issue.

### [npm Credential Security](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/49#issuecomment-311694160)

* Right now, every TSC member has publish access for all ESLint packages.
* If someone's credentials are stolen, an attacker could publish compromised versions of ESLint.
* All regular releases are done by the bot.
* Can we restrict publish access to just the bot while still allowing developers to publish a release manually if something goes wrong?
* @ilyavolodin proposes to:
  * Remove admin permissions from the npmjs org.
  * Restrict write permissions to @ilyavolodin, @nzakas, and the bot.
  * Find a way to store publish credentials security, then restrict publish access to just the bot.
* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @gyandeeps, @kaicataldo, @nzakas

**Resolution**: We will restrict publish access to @ilyavolodin, @nzakas, and the bot. @ilyavolodin will research password sharing solutions.

### [GLaDOS - ESLint bot](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/49#issuecomment-312676089)

* I created a bot to be used at work and now wanted to share it here to see if we can use it for ESLint.
* @gyandeeps proposes to:
  * Make GLaDOS as a GitHub app which can only be used for ESLint org and install it under ESLint.
  * Make more plugins as needed.
  * Activate/deactivate/modify existing plugins if needed.
  * Add it to ESLint org as a project so that everyone of us can contribute and manage.
* Don't want to support a general tool - this is specific for ESLint's uses.
* Remove the existing bot's webhook.
* Deploy it to the same JSF server that hosts the current bot.
* :+1: from @gyandeeps, @not-an-aardvark, @kaicataldo, @alberto, @btmills

**Resolution**: Move the repository into the ESLint org on GitHub, deploy the bot to the JSF server when we get access, and switch the webhook over once it's deployed.

### [Docs: Clarified PR guidelines in maintainer guide](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/8876)

* TSC Summary: Goal is to clarify and improve the PR guidelines in the maintainer guide. I tried to make changes that were either obvious clarifications/reorganizations, or that reflected our actual practices. Nonetheless, this might need TSC review to make sure I'm not inadvertently proposing to change maintainer guidelines.
* TSC Question: Are the proposed changes acceptable and accurate?
* :+1: from @kaicataldo, @ilyavolodin, @gyandeeps, @alberto, @btmills

**Resolution**: The changes are accepted.

### [refactor: replace is-my-json-valid with Ajv](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/8852)

* TSC Summary: This PR proposes switching the internal schema validator to use ajv rather than is-my-json-valid.
* TSC Question: Should we accept this proposal?
* Advantages are better error messages and faster perf
* This is not a breaking change because errors will be thrown in the same cases per spec, and only the message will be different
* :+1: from @gyandeeps, @ilyavolodin, @kaicataldo, @alberto, @btmills

### [Interest in ownership of the eslint formatter sublime plugin?](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8842)

* This is an autoformatter, not a linter.
* The original author hasn't been able to maintain it for a while and has asked the org if we want to take over the project.
* Nobody still in the meeting uses Sublime.
* As much as we would like to, we don't have the capacity to adopt the project.
* Reluctant :-1: from @kaicataldo, @gyandeeps, @alberto, @btmills, @ilyavolodin
* We can help promote the request for a maintainer using the ESLint Twitter account.

**Resolution**: We will not adopt the project, but we will help promote the request for a maintainer.

### [Support block-comment version of eslint-disable-line](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/8781)

* Request to support `eslint-disable-line` in block comments.
* Proposal to instead allow `eslint-disable-next-line` in block comments to allow disable comments in JSX.
* How far does JSCS support go?
* Disable comments aren't intended to be inserted by machines.
* Want to discuss more on the issue before deciding whether to accept.
