# 2018-October-25 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2018/10/25

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC
* Nicholas Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC

## Topics

### [Allow use node version >8](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10981)

* @platinumazure brought up concerns about our CI being able to catch when ESLint changes something that breaks compatibility with older versions of Node.
* @not-an-aardvark expressed concern over supporting very old versions of major lines of Node that we support, as it could limit features that ESLint can use.
* Given time constraints, @nzakas suggested we continue this discussion in an issue on GitHub.
* :+1: from @nzakas, @platinumazure, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea, and @kaicataldo

**Resolution**: We will open up a new issue to discuss how we want to handle Node.js version support going forward.

### [False negatives with sourceType: module and ecmaVersion <= 5](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9687)

* The new behavior should take into account config cascading (i.e. check the fully merged config).
* There were concerns about the impact on users, given the breaking nature of this change.
* @not-an-aardvark brought up a counter-proposal to change the behavior to report a fatal error if a config sets `sourceType: "module"` and explicitly sets `ecmaVersion: 5`.
* :+1: from @nzakas, @platinumazure, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea, and @kaicataldo

**Resolution**: We will accept the proposal for the next major version and further implementation details will be discussed on the issue.

### [How do we make it clearer who the currently active team members are?](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/105#issuecomment-432412326)

* :+1: from @nzakas, @platinumazure, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea, and @kaicataldo

**Resolution**: The proposal outlined in the comment above is now accepted. 

### [Revisit how we handle closing of issues based on the data @nzakas has collected](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/105#issuecomment-431639429)

* There was discussion around whether we should auto-close issues or not (with the main concern being bugs).
* It was decided that this discussion would be scoped to issues only, though we can explore how we can better use the bot to manage PRs in the future.
* Some other ideas brought up were to use the bot to comment after a given time of inactivity, as well as putting the `help wanted` label on said issue.
* :+1: from @nzakas, @platinumazure, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea, and @kaicataldo

**Resolution**: We will maintain the current policy and start discussions around bot behavior to enforce and enhance the policy.
