# 2018-Mar-01 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2018/03/01

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC

## Topics

### [Feature request: allow CLIEngine.executeOnFiles consumers to skip globbing](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9972)

**TSC Summary:** Add `glob: false` to `CLIEngine.executeOnFiles` to avoid additional overhead when passing in full file paths.
**TSC Question:** Should this change be accepted?

* This would be a power user option for API consumers that don't want the performance overhead from globbing.
* It would be API-only and not have a CLI flag equivalent.
* We also use globs for overrides in configs. This option should only apply to source paths/files/dirs/patterns. We should name this option `globInputPaths` to avoid ambiguity.
* :+1: from @btmills, @platinumazure, @not-an-aardvark, @gyandeeps, @kaicataldo, @mysticatea

**Resolution:**: Accept the issue and name the option `globInputPaths`.

### [Proposal: removing `parserOptions.experimentalObjectRestSpread` option](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9990)

**TSC Summary:** Remove the parserOptions.experimentalObjectRestSpread option in the next major version, 5.0.0.
To replace it by parserOptions.ecmaVersion: 2018 to migrate.

* This would be a breaking change.
* @platinumazure proposed waiting until 6.0.0 to give more time to transition.
* @btmills proposed a deprecation message suggesting `ecmaVersion: 2018` whenever `experimentalObjectRestSpread` is set.
* @mysticatea proposed translating `experimentalObjectRestSpread` to `ecmaVersion: 2018` behind the scenes.
* :+1: to a unified proposal from @btmills, @gyandeeps, @platinumazure, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea

**Resolution:** Remove the `experimentalObjectRestSpread` option from `espree` and switch away from the experimental node types in a single breaking change released as part of `eslint@5.0.0`. `eslint@5.0.0` deprecates `experimentalObjectRestSpread`, printing a message suggesting `ecmaVersion: 2018` and translating to `ecmaVersion: 2018` behind the scenes. `eslint@6.0.0` removes the deprecation message and translation.

### [Throw an error if a rule reports a problem without supplying a message](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10011)

**TSC Summary:** This issue proposes throwing an error when a rule reports a problem without providing a report message. The current behavior is to give the problem a message of undefined, which crashes several formatters.
**TSC Question:** Should we accept this proposal?

* General surprise that this was allowed at all.
* This would be a breaking change.
* :+1: from @platinumazure, @gyandeeps, @kaicataldo, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea, @btmills

**Resolution:** This is accepted as a breaking change.

### [eslint silently ignores missing files](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/7390)

**TSC Summary:** This issue proposes changing the behavior of ESLint to report a fatal error if nonexistent files/globs are passed on the command line. This would be a breaking change. The TSC [discussed this](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/blob/b76a2f0ba1f8701602e7d5178f28b3a80bf98a27/notes/2017/2017-03-30.md#breaking-report-file-not-found-errors) last year to consider adding it to the 4.0 release, but the resolution at the time was to defer it and consider changing the behavior in 5.0.
**TSC Question:** Should we accept this change for 5.0?

* This was also discussed in eslint/eslint#7395.
* [Archive of previous discussion at 21 minutes](https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2017/03/30)
* :+1: from @kaicataldo, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea, @btmills, @platinumazure
* No strong opinion from @gyandeeps

**Resolution:** The issue is accepted.

### [Planning for 5.0.0 release](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/77#issuecomment-369674788)

* Agenda item: I think we should start planning for the 5.0 release. If we have time, I think we should also make a decision on some of the issues in the "needs discussion" column for the 5.0 project.
* Node 4 is EOL on April 1st.
* Should we change support to `>=6` or `6`, `8`, and `10`?
* :+1: to starting pre-releases in the next release cycle from @platinumazure, @kaicataldo, @btmills, @not-an-aardvark, @gyandeeps, @mysticatea
* Tabling discussion on Node version support until the next meeting so we can gather data.

**Resolution**: We will start 5.0.0 pre-releases beginning with the 2018/03/16 release.

### [Scheduled release for March 2nd, 2018](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9997)

**Resolution:** @btmills and @gyandeeps will do the release
