# 2018-September-27 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2018/09/27

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC

## Topics

### [Declaring shareable configs and plugins in package.json is unreliable](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10125)

> **TSC Summary**:
>
> ESLint's plugin- and config-loading mechanism currently depends on implementation details of package managers like `npm` and `yarn`, rather than intended behavior. (In short, `eslint` needs to be able to load plugins like `eslint-plugin-react` relative to its own location, even though `eslint` never specifies `eslint-plugin-react` in its own dependencies.) This causes ESLint to unexpectedly break when using package management tools like Lerna or Yarn Plug N' Play, which is creating problems for downstream tools.
>
> It appears that any solution to this problem would require shareable configs to be able to load their plugins from their own dependencies (or from a config-provided absolute path). As discussed in https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/3458 and https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10643, this would introduce a problem if two loaded plugins have the same name, because the user wouldn't be able to independently configure the rules from the two plugins.
>
> It seems like we have several ways we could proceed:
>
> 1. Load plugins from the dependencies of the config that specifies them, and introduce a mechanism for users to disambiguate plugins with the same name (e.g. as proposed in https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10643). Note that https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10643 is semver-major.
> 1. Load plugins from the dependencies of the config that specifies them, and throw a fatal error if two loaded plugins have the same name. (This would also be semver-major, although it would require significantly less implementation effort than (1).)
> 1. Continue loading plugins from the location of the `eslint` package, but allow configs to specify absolute paths to plugins. Throw a fatal error if two loaded plugins have the same name. (This would not be semver-major, although it would introduce the same potential user confusion (2).
> 1. Don't change anything, and decide that we don't support using Lerna or Yarn Plug N' Play. I would not recommend this option; ostensibly a linter shouldn't care what package management strategy is being used.
>
> Solution (3) seems to be the only option that fixes the issue without a breaking change. If we adopt solution (3), I think we should commit to also adopting solution (1) or (2) in the next major release, otherwise the situation will end up very messy. In past discussions, the idea of throwing a fatal error when encountering duplicate plugin names (i.e. implementing (2) or (3)) has been very contentious.
>
> I think solution (1) would be the best solution in the long term, but based on past discussions I suspect this opinion might also be contentious.
>
> **TSC Question**: How should we address this issue?

* @platinumazure, @btmills, and @ilyavolodin are explicitly against doing nothing (4).
* @nzakas had worked on this previously and opened [nodejs/node#5963](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/5963) to expose the module resolution algorithm as an API. This was added to Node.js v8.9.0 as the `paths` option for [`require.resolve`](https://nodejs.org/api/modules.html#modules_require_resolve_request_options).
* @nzakas, @btmills, @ilyavolodin, @platinumazure are in favor of (1).
* (1) could entail significant complexity. @nzakas' prior work could lead to a rethink that avoids this problem entirely.
* @not-an-aardvark describes the design of a potential solution in https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10643.
* Proposal to request prototypes of (1) to see if it is a) feasible to implement and b) sufficient from a user perspective. If not, pursue a rethink based on @nzakas' work.
* :+1: from @btmills, @nzakas, @platinumazure, @not-an-aardvark, @ilyavolodin

**Resolution**: Accept the issue and require a prototype for option (1).

### [Requiring 2FA for npm publishes](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10631)

> **TSC Summary**: npm has an option to require a 2FA code to be entered when publishing any particular package. This would improve the security of our releases because it would prevent a malicious release in the event that (a) a TSC member's GitHub or npm account is compromised, or (b) the Jenkins server is non-persistently compromised. If we enabled this, we would probably do releases by sharing the 2FA private key among the users who are allowed to do the release, and entering a TOTP code into jenkins during the release process.
>
> **TSC Question**: Should we require 2FA for npm publishes?

* npm was at one time working on [time-limited tokens](https://npm.community/t/time-limited-tokens/502) that would be valid for the duration of a build.
* Without time-limited tokens, a standard TOTP code provided at the beginning of a build would have expired by the time the publish step is reached. The solution would be to split the build into two phases: 1) everything before publish 2) publish and request the TOTP before beginning the second phase.
* Since the publish step runs in Jenkins, TSC members would have to share the TOTP secret key in advance. While far from ideal, this is still more secure than not having 2FA at all.
* @nzakas proposes agreeing to the idea of 2FA without specifying any particular implementation.
* :+1: from @ilyavolodin, @btmills, @not-an-aardvark, @platinumazure.

**Resolution**: Accept the issue.

### [Additional option for --fix](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10855)

> **TSC Summary:** This proposal seeks to add a `--fix-type` flag that can limit the fixes that are applied by ESLint based on the type of rule. Rules would be updated with a `meta.type` property that is one of: problem, suggestion, or style. You could then do, for example, `--fix-type problem` to just fix problems.
>
> **TSC Question:** Shall we accept this proposal?

* How do we distinguish between stylistic and non-stylistic issues?
* @ilyavolodin proposes "stylistic -> doesn't change AST, suggestion -> changes AST, but has not visible effect on the code, problem -> changes AST and might have potential affect on the code".
* @not-an-aardvark suggests simplifying into three categories: "Unfixable rules", "Fixable rules for which the fix changes the AST", and "Fixable rules for which the fix does nto change the AST".
* @nzakas proposes using @ilyavolodin's definition as a base and further refining it during implementation.
* :+1: from @platinumazure, @ilyavolodin, @btmills, @not-an-aardvark

**Resolution**: Accept the issue and discuss rule-specific details there.

### [Scheduled release for September 28th, 2018](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10866)

**Resolution**: @not-an-aardvark and @nzakas will do the release.
