# 2018-October-11 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2018/10/11

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC

## Topics

### [Reevaluate issue close policies after gathering data about issue close dates](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/103#issuecomment-427111599)

> I'd like to go over the issue data that I gathered in this spreadsheet:
> https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vRFQam6-goVy_tg97_krGH13KBMV9Bv78WC88knrdN9VduPkxcdmOu3yhxqoqc2e3PaP1vqtcJSc7G3/pubchart?oid=1335761323&format=interactive
> 
> The goal of going over the data is to see if we can all agree on when to close old issues, and potentially, implement auto-closing of old issues after a certain date (though I'd suggest we not autoclose issues if someone is assigned to them).
> 
> Our current policy is stated here: https://eslint.org/docs/maintainer-guide/issues#when-to-close-an-issue

* @not-an-aardvark raised the question about whether @nzakas should be present for the discussion. @btmills and @kaicataldo agreed it would be best to see if he can join.
* After 10 minutes, @not-an-aardvark suggested tabling for the next meeting. :+1: from @btmills, @platinumazure, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea, and @kaicataldo.

**Resolution**: Issue is tabled for the next meeting.

### [Scheduled release for October 12th, 2018](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10908)

Recurring topic to ensure the scheduled release is adequately covered.

* @platinumazure asked whether we would try to incorporate npm 2FA into this release.
* @not-an-aardvark noted that eslint-release should be ready for npm 2FA releases, but more steps needed to be taken to start using npm 2FA:
    * eslint-release itself needed to be released
    * Other projects would need to consume the new release
    * Jenkins builds would need to be modified
* Probably not enough time to prepare for 2FA release on 2018-10-12.
* @not-an-aardvark noted we could temporarily require npm 2FA before releasing eslint@5.7.0 and publish eslint-release to smooth out problems. Consensus seemed to be in favor of waiting until after 5.7 release before releasing eslint-release.
* @not-an-aardvark, @platinumazure, and @btmills volunteered to do the release.

**Resolution**: @not-an-aardvark and @btmills will do the release.
