# 2018-September-13 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2018/09/13

## Attending

* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC

## Topics

### [Support the `default` JSON Schema keyword](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9929)

> **TSC Summary**:
>
> JSON Schema supports a "default" keyword which allows schema authors to specify default values for optional properties in an object schema (among other cases). By allowing schemas to have defaults (a 1-line change in the ajv wrapper code), both core rules and custom rules could have default values in schemas.
>
> Additionally (although maybe as a separate proposal), we could write some generic code when creating rule instances which would hydrate default values for any rule options not provided by the user, which would allow us to remove some code in all rules related to option defaults. There shouldn't be any impact to users because the default keyword only has its semantic meaning as a keyword outside of property lists (i.e., rules with a "default" named option should not be affected).
>
> **TSC Question**: Should we enable use of "default" keyword in rule schemas?

* @platinumazure notes that once we enable `useDefaults: true` in `ajv`, calls to `validate()` will mutate whatever object was passed in, so we'll need to be careful when implementing to avoid potentially clobbering user config information.
* :+1: from @ilyavolodin, @platinumazure, @btmills, @kaicataldo, @not-an-aardvark

**Resolution**: We will enable the setting, being careful not to mutate user configs.

### [Fix: getJSDocComment - Try using looser "Property" as a fence](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/10792)

> **TSC Summary:** With experimental syntax such as ClassProperty nodes, there is a need for `sourceCode.getJSDocComment` to properly handle other node types to ensure JSDoc comments are found in the right place. For example, a ClassProperty node in a class would be treated similarly to a Property in an object (i.e., the comment should be just outside of the Property or ClassProperty, even though it is only the `value` of said node types that would be the function described by the JSDoc).
>
> Currently, SourceCode (and especially the JSDoc integrations) are not easily extensible. There is probably a desire to make this functionality extensible through parser services or whatever else, but that will take some time to design.
>
> We have an opportunity to provide limited support for "property-like" node types without explicitly marrying ourselves to an ESTree node name that might change, which would deliver value for users who need to write JSDoc on "property-like" nodes which we don't currently support. The idea, at this point, is to assume that a node type ending in "Property" (including Property itself, but also including ClassProperty and anything else following that pattern) should be regarded as a node that JSDoc comments can decorate in a similar manner as Property nodes. That is the approach this PR takes.
>
> **TSC Questions**:
>
> * Should we accept this change in the short term? (Possibly with the understanding that this is a one-off change to *allow* some experimental syntax here without explicitly *endorsing* it, and as such we don't intend to make further changes unless the nodes join Stage 4.)
> * Should we agree to invite or draft a proposal to extend SourceCode to support JSDoc options (e.g., node types that can be associated with JSDoc nodes), and add that to the core roadmap?

* General agreement that we shouldn't do nothing.
* This arises from https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10790, in which a JSDoc comment was associated with an incorrect node.
* @not-an-aardvark proposes establishing a convention where rules use `context.parserServices.getJSDocComment`, falling back to `sourceCode.getJSDocComment` if no such parser service exists.
* We'll revisit this problem later if the `parserServices.getJSDocComment` solution doesn't work for some reason.
* Can we instead have `sourceCode.getJSDocComment` proxy to `parserServices` if available?
* If a parser already implements a different `getJSDocComment` method, this would be a breaking change.
* :+1: to @not-an-aardvark's proposal from @kaicataldo, @btmills, @not-an-aardvark, @platinumazure

**Resolution**: Allow parsers to provide a `getJSDocComment` service, and try to avoid a breaking change.

### [Enable HSTS on eslint.org](https://github.com/eslint/eslint.github.io/issues/503)

> **TSC Summary**: This issue proposes enabling [HTTP Strict Transport Security](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_Strict_Transport_Security) on `eslint.org`.
>
> **TSC Question**: Should we enable this?

* Enabling HSTS does not tie us to any particularl hosting provider. Whatever we use, it just has to support https.

**Resolution**: The issue is accepted.

### [Handing over portions of ESLint's TypeScript story](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/99#issuecomment-420775860)

* @JamesHenry has been maintaining `typescript-eslint-parser` but no longer uses ESLint.
* There are two main components to the plugin:
  1. Parsing TypeScript ASTs to ESTree
  1. ESLint-specific integration
* Prettier also uses the parser.
* @JamesHenry proposes splitting the project and still maintaining `typescript-estree` but handing off `typescript-eslint-parser` which becomes a wrapper around `typescript-estree`.
* There are three questions to answer here:
  1. Do we want to accept the structure change to `typescript-eslint-parser` to use `typescript-estree` as a dependency?
  1. Do we want to/is it a legal requirement that we bring `typescript-estree` into the `eslint` organization?
  1. What is the plan for maintaining `typescript-eslint-parser` moving forward?

**Resolution**:

1. Split `typescript-estree` out of `typescript-eslint-parser` so @JamesHenry can maintain it separately.
1. Unless JSF says there are legal issues, don't require bringing `typescript-estree` into the `eslint` org.
1. Put `typescript-eslint-parser` into "looking for maintainer" mode and see if anyone in the community will pick it up. Reach out to the TypeScript team to see if they're interested.

### [Requiring 2FA for npm publishes](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10631)

* Tabling due to time constraints.

### [Scheduled release for September 14th, 2018](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10832)

**Resolution**: @platinumazure and @not-an-aardvark will do the release.
