# 18-Jan-2018 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2018/01/18

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC

## Topics

### [Lock issues that have been closed for awhile](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9837)

* @not-an-aardvark proposes locking closed issues after some amount of time.
* The two most frequent reasons a user comments on a closed issue are:
    1. Believing they encountered a bug which was purportedly already fixed.
    1. Supporting a feature request that was already declined.
* Neither case above is actionable, so locking the issue could cut down on notification noise.
* Requiring users to open a new issue increases the barrier to commenting, which could cut down on un-actionable comments while simultaneously providing more information, though at the expense of some users with real problems who won't open an issue.
* Q: Do we want to allow issues with continuing discussion after closing to remain open? A: If there's ongoing activity, we should ask them to create a new issue.
* Proposal to trial locking issues 6 months after closing and re-evaluate ~2 months from implementation. :+1: from @btmills, @not-an-aardvark, @platinumazure, @mysticatea, @gyandeeps

**Resolution**: We'll try locking issues 6 months after closing and re-evaluate ~2 months after implementation.

### [Update: Restrict re-exports in no-restricted-imports](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/9823)

* **TSC Summary**: Issue #9678 was originally filed as a bug report, asserting that `no-restricted-imports` does not handle an import that is re-exported. The issue was accepted as a bug. However, with the pull request that was submitted (this PR), we've had one user (who maintains a popular guide) request that it be put behind an option for backward compatibility.
* **TSC Question**: Should this be accepted as a bug with default behavior change (as semver-minor per our policy), knowing that it will cause some pain? Should this be accepted as a behavior change behind a new option (also semver-minor, but with no pain)? Or should we accept this as a bug with default behavior change, but choose not to merge in a semver-minor release and instead treat this as a full breaking change (semver-major)?
* @ilyavolodin proposes implementing this behavior, enabled by default, but with an option that could disable it. This gives the popular styleguide a way to disable the corrected behavior. :+1: from @btmills, @platinumazure. No opposition from @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea. @gyandeeps no longer present.

**Resolution**: We will accept the change with the new behavior enabled by default and an option to disable it.

### [Scheduled release for January 19th, 2018](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9828)

**Resolution**: @platinumazure and @not-an-aardvark will do the release.
