# 2018-Apr-26 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2018/04/26

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* alberto (@alberto) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC

## Topics

### [Re-evaluate auto-locking old closed issues](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/83#issuecomment-383340774)

* A few months ago, we [decided](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/blob/4604d91e9e0c546b9bf336ed24dc9a7998a17010/notes/2018/2018-01-18.md#lock-issues-that-have-been-closed-for-awhile) to start locking issues that have been closed for over 6 months on the `eslint/eslint` repo, with the plan that we would reevaluate the decision about two months after implementing it.
* It's been a bit over 2 months since this was [enabled](https://github.com/eslint/eslint-github-bot/commit/111175bdbb0304b6cc44ed9eafee9d85e94e0b33), so we should evaluate whether it's been working and decide whether we should keep doing this.
* :+1: from @alberto, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @mysticatea, @ilyavolodin, @gyandeeps

**Resolution**: We'll continue automatically locking old closed issues.

### [Change XML output file's version to 1.1](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9607#issuecomment-381429706)

* Follow-up to the [previous meeting's discussion](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/blob/master/notes/2018/2018-04-12.md#change-xml-output-files-version-to-11).
* After having a look at this, we framed the discussion around a non-existent `xml` formatter. The actual formatters that use xml output are `checkstyle`, `jslint-xml` and `junit`. I am a bit more reluctant to version these according to xml version. I propose we revisit the decision taking this into account.
* XML 1.1 was released in 2006 and has yet to see widespread adoption.
* Users who really need XML 1.1 are able to create a custom formatter.
* @alberto, @not-an-aardvark, @gyandeeps, @btmills, @ilyavolodin prefer to keep the formatters as-is.
* @mysticatea has no strong opinion.

**Resolution**: Leave the XML-based formatters as-is.

### [Breaking: add rules to recommended (fixes #8865)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/10158)

* **TSC Summary**: In major releases in the past, we've usually added some rules to `eslint:recommended`.
* **TSC Question**: What rules should we add? The `for-direction`, `getter-return`, and `no-prototype-builtins` rules have been proposed in this issue so far.
* `no-prototype-builtins` may have too many false positives.
* :+1: to `for-direction` from @ilyavolodin, @btmills, @mysticatea, @gyandeeps, @alberto
* :+1: to `getter-return` from @ilyavolodin, @btmills, @mysticatea, @gyandeeps, @alberto
* :-1: to `no-prototype-builtins` from @ilyavolodin, @btmills. @mysticatea, @gyandeeps, @alberto are neutral.

**Resolution**: Add `for-direction` and `getter-return` to `eslint:recommended`.

### [Remove TDZ scopes](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10245)

* **TSC Summary**: ESLint should not make TDZ scope objects as a structural matter because TDZ is a timing matter. TDZ scopes have caused a bug (#10227). The removal does not have any effect to core rules, at least in our tests (#10270).
* **TSC Question**: Should we accept this change -- remove TDZ scopes?
* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @ilyavolodin, @mysticatea, @alberto, @btmills, @gyandeeps

**Resolution**: Accept the issue and remove TDZ scopes.

### [context.getScope() on ForStatement](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10246)

* **TSC Summary**: `context.getScope()` on any of `ForStatement`, `ForInStatement`, and `ForOfStatement` should return these `for` scope. Currently, those return the parent scope of these `for` scope.
* **TSC Question**: Should we accept this change -- `context.getScope()` on any of `ForStatement`, `ForInStatement`, and `ForOfStatement` returns these `for` scope?
* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @alberto, @mysticatea, @ilyavolodin, @btmills, @gyandeeps

**Resolution**: Accept the issue.

### [context.getScope() depends on parserOptions.ecmaVersion](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10247)

* **TSC Summary**: `context.getScope()` should not depend on `parserOptions.ecmaVersion`. The `context.getScope()` probably does not work correctly with custom parsers that don't have `parserOptions.ecmaVersion` option such as `babel-eslint` and `typescript-eslint-parser`. If we remove that dependency, `context.getScope()` on `CatchClause` will be changed. I believe that other changes are nothing.
* **TSC Question**: Should we accept this change -- remove the `parserOptions.ecmaVersion` access from `context.getScope()`?
* We'll need to include a note about this in the migration guide for plugin developers.
* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @platinumazure, @gyandeeps, @alberto, @btmills, @mysticatea
* @ilyavolodin defers to the majority, with concern for possible unintended effects from the change.

**Resolution**: Accept the issue.

### [Scheduled release for April 27th, 2018](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10214)

**Resolution**: @platinumazure and @not-an-aardvark will do the release.
