# 15-Feb-2018 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2018/02/15

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC
* alberto (@alberto) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC

## Topics

### [JS Interactive "hack fest"](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/75#issuecomment-364699093)

**TSC summary:** JSF and Node.js Foundation are co-hosting the JS Interactive event this coming October in Vancouver, Canada. This is the new joint venture that replaces what was formerly called Node.js Interactive.
As part of JS Interactive, the Node.js project will be once again running their Code and Learn and Collaborator Summit the day after the traditional sessions end. JSF wants to do something simular for member projects. In general, there would be a meeting room where for Code and Learn, potential contributors could meet with project team members and work together on contributions. For Collaborator Summit, the project teams could meet to discuss project matters, finish new features, etc. JSF does not currently have travel budget.
**TSC Question:** Do we want to participate in the JS Interactive hackfest, if so, who from the team would be willing to travel to Vancouver to run this for ESLint?

**Resolution**: @platinumazure and @kaicataldo might be able to go, but are unsure due to various factors. They should contact @ilyavolodin by the end of the month so he can send a response to the JSF.

### [Update no-shadow-restricted-names to handle optional catch](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/9613)

* Our policy for accepting support for new language features is currently unclear, and we have been inconsistent in the past.
* There seems to be agreement over the general idea of [this comment](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9804#issuecomment-360810237), but some details about how we would make decisions are still unclear.
* Not enough time to finish the discussion in the meeting

**Resolution**: Continue discussion on [#9804](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9804) to clarify details of the feature support policy.

### [Support multiline `eslint-disable` comments with leading asterisks](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9646)

**TSC Summary:** Currently ESLint directives don't support multi-line comments with leading asterisks.
**TSC Question:** Proposal is to allow this behavior.

* General agreement is that the feature doesn't have a lot of value-add and might not be worth the complexity
* @mysticatea was in favor of the issue but was not at the meeting

**Resolution**: See if @mysticatea feels strongly about accepting the issue, otherwise close it. (:+1: from @ilyavolodin, @platinumazure, @not-an-aardvark, @kaicataldo, @alberto, @btmills)

### [Support @scope for @scope/eslint-plugin](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9903)

**TSC Summary:** ESLint resolves `@scope` inconsistently:

- `extends: ["@scope"]` → `@scope/eslint-config`
- `plugins: ["@scope"]` → `eslint-plugin-@scope`

Because we have received the request "`@scope` → `@scope/eslint-config`" in #3123 but never received the request "`@scope` → `@scope/eslint-plugin`".
So I propose the feature that ESLint resolves "`plugins: ["@scope"]` to `@scope/eslint-plugin`" for consistency.

**TSC Question:** Should we accept this feature?

* General support for the idea, some concern over whether this is a breaking change for users that currently have folders like `eslint-plugin-@foo`
* `eslint-plugin-@foo` is not a valid package name on the NPM registry, but can be used as a node module if downloaded from somewhere else
* @not-an-aardvark and @platinumazure are in favor of making this a breaking change. @ilyavolodin and @btmills are unconvinced that it is a breaking change, but are fine with calling it a breaking change to be safe.

**Resolution**: The proposal is accepted as a breaking change (:+1: from @kaicataldo, @platinumazure, @alberto, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills)

### [Scheduled release for February 16th, 2018](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9952)

**Resolution**: @kaicataldo and @ilyavolodin will do the release.
