# 2018-May-10 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2018/05/10

## Attending

* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC

## Topics

### [Prompt users before installing dependencies in `eslint --init`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9918)

**TSC Summary:**

When a user runs `eslint --init` and chooses to use a shareable config, we determine what dependencies are needed and install those via calls to `npm install`. This can be confusing for users who use a different package manager, especially if the other package manager is fully integrated into their project and they are only adding ESLint later.

The proposed solution is to add a question to `eslint --init` which lists the dependencies to be installed and asks the user if s/he wishes to install via npm. If the user says no, `eslint --init` will not install the dependencies. (The user could copy/paste the dependency list into some other package manager command.) Assumption is there is still no desire to explicitly support other package managers in `eslint --init`.

**TSC Question:**

Should we accept this CLI enhancement proposal?

:+1: from @platinumazure, @ilyavolodin, @btmills, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea

**Resolution**: The issue is accepted.

### [New default behavior for rules in 5.0?](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10215)

**TSC Summary**: This issue proposes changing the default behavior of some rules in ESLint v5.0.

**TSC Question**: Which rule defaults should we change?

* `object-curly-multiline` change from `"multiline"` to `"consistent"`: :+1: from @platinumazure, @ilyavolodin, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @mysticatea
* `no-self-assign` enable `props: true`: :+1: from @platinumazure, @ilyavolodin, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @mysticatea

**Resolution**: Change the default for `object-curly-multiline` from `"multiline"` to `"consistent"`, and enable `props: true` by default for `no-self-assign`.

### [Report an error for eslint-disable-line comments that span multiple lines](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10334)

**TSC Summary**:

```js
/* eslint-disable-next-line
	foo,
	bar,
	baz
*/
```

Comments like the above are currently ignored because determining which line to apply to could be confusing.

**TSC Question**: Should we report an error for for disable directives that span multiple lines?

* We already report errors for comments that are malformed in other ways ([demo](https://eslint.org/demo/#eyJ0ZXh0IjoiLyogZXNsaW50IGFhYSAqLyIsIm9wdGlvbnMiOnsicGFyc2VyT3B0aW9ucyI6eyJlY21hVmVyc2lvbiI6OCwic291cmNlVHlwZSI6InNjcmlwdCIsImVjbWFGZWF0dXJlcyI6e319LCJydWxlcyI6e30sImVudiI6e319fQ==))
* We also report schema violations for rule configuration options that don't exist
* :+1: from @mysticatea, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @ilyavolodin

**Resolution**: Accept this change.

### [Scheduled release for May 11th, 2018](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10281)

* We do not wait for follow-up patch releases on Monday following pre-releases.
* This release will be an alpha. If no more breaking changes are needed, and no problems are reported, we can advance immediately to release candidates in the following release.

**Resolution**: @ilyavolodin and @not-an-aardvark will do the release
