# 2018-Apr-12 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2018/04/12

## Attending

* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* alberto (@alberto) - TSC

## Topics

### [Add mjs to --ext default](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9592)

**TSC Summary**: Node.js uses the `.mjs` extension to indicate `module` source code.
**TSC Question**: Should we add `.mjs` to the default extensions?

* This is currently experimental in Node.
* This would be a breaking change.
* We expect this to land eventually unless the Node roadmap changes.
* @not-an-aardvark proposed waiting to ship this.
* :+1: from @alberto, @ilyavolodin, @btmills, @kaicataldo, @gyandeeps

**Resolution**: We will not add `.mjs` to the defualt extensions for now.

### [Change XML output file's version to 1.1](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9607)

**TSC Summary**:
The messages that are part of the current `xml` formatter output have been identified in some cases as being non-compliant with XML 1.0 standards (having to do with entity encoding, but I can't remember the details).
We decided to change the XML version to 1.1, but that broke some people's integrations which could only handle XML 1.0.
We could set XML to 1.1 as a breaking change, or we could create a new formatter and thus support both.
One possibility that avoids the need for aligning with a major release is to leave the current xml formatter as 1.0 and create an xml11 formatter that outputs as XML 1.1.

**TSC Questions**:

1. Should we be making a change in the 5.0 release?
1. Should we continue to support XML 1.0 output?
1. Should we support XML 1.1 output?
1. Should we create a new formatter and/or change the existing formatter, and which version should each formatter support?

* @ilyavolodin proposed adding a second formatter.
* @btmills and @not-an-aardvark proposed changing the default `xml` formatter to use XML version 1.1, with the second 1.0 formatter named `xml-1.0`
* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @ilyavolodin, @kaicataldo, @mysticatea, @gyandeeps

**Resolution**: As a breaking change in the 5.0 release, we will rename the current `xml` formatter to `xml-1.0` to maintain compatibility with XML version 1.0 for those who need it, and we will update the default `xml` formatter to support XML version 1.1.

### [Upgrade: ajv@^6.0.1, still using json schema draft 04](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/9856)

**TSC Summary**: This is to upgrade ajv, our schema validator (originally introduced with ESLint 4.x). It's a major upgrade but we're still using JSON Schema Draft 4 (i.e., it should accept the same schemas it currently does). npm test passes with this change.

**TSC Question**: Should we accept this upgrade? And if so, should this be treated as semver-patch or semver-major?

* @not-an-aardvark proposed accepting this as a semver-patch change since it appears to preserve compatibility for our use cases.
* :+1: from @ilyavolodin, @alberto, @mysticatea, @gyandeeps, @kaicataldo, @btmills

**Resolution**: This is accepted as a semver-patch change.

### [Parsing error: Unexpected token => when using eslint --init on post-ES2015 files](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10003)

**TSC Summary:** When running `eslint --init` and asking it to inspect source code of files, we ask if users are using ES2015/ES6 features but not if they might be using later ES versions (to allow, e.g., exponentiation or async/await syntax).
This causes a parsing error, since we aren't parsing the files with a recent enough `ecmaVersion`.

Probably the best way to resolve this is to change the "Using ES6 features" question in `eslint --init` to a version selection (ES2015, ES2016, etc. until latest available).

**TSC Question:** Should we change the "Using ES6 features" question to an ecmaVersion selection question?

* :+1: from @btmills, @kaicataldo, @mysticatea, @ilyavolodin, @not-an-aardvark, @gyandeeps

**Resolution**: The issue is accepted.

### [drop supporting Node.js 4](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10052)

**TSC Summary**: We need to decide which versions of Node we will support in the next major release.
**TSC Questions**:

1. Should we explicitly drop support for Node 7?
1. Should we support anything above a particular version of Node 6 (e.g. >=6.9.4), or any version of Node 6 at all (i.e. >=6.0.0)?

* @not-an-aardvark did research since the previous meeting and left [a comment](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10052#issuecomment-377381218) with the results.
* AWS Lambda currently supports 8.10.0, whereas latest stable is 8.11.0. We could make an exception in that case.
* Even though Node 9 is technically unstable, dropping support for it when Node 10 comes out would be a semver-major change.
* Do we support a major release sequence starting at `x.0`, or the most recent release as of our 5.0 release (e.g. `6.14.0`)?
* @not-an-aardvark proposed supporting `^6.14.0 || ^8.10.0 || >=9.10.0`, which includes AWS Lambda support.
* :+1: from @mysticatea, @kaicataldo, @btmills, @alberto, @not-an-aardvark

**Resolution**: Drop support for Node 4 and 7, and specify specific versions in each major release sequence where our support begins.

### [Remove compatibility hack for plugins that monkeypatch `Linter`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10140)

**TSC Summary**: We've had a few compatibility hacks in Linter for much of the 4.x release line, which we would like to remove. These appear to have been added due to [`eslint-plugin-eslint-comments`](https://github.com/mysticatea/eslint-plugin-eslint-comments) needing to intercept lint reports as they are made. However, we now have the [`--report-unused-disable-directives`](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface#--report-unused-disable-directives) CLI flag, which should cover that use case. Comments in code suggest that we intend to remove the compatibility flags in a major release.

**TSC Question**: Should we remove these compatibility hacks in ESLint 5.0?

* @mysticatea notes that `--report-unused-disable-directives` cannot be configured in shared configs but is not strongly opposed.
* :+1: from @btmills, @not-an-aardvark, @ilyavolodin, @alberto, @gyandeeps, @kaicataldo

**Resolution**: The issue is accepted.

### [Remove deprecated browser/jest globals](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10141)

**TSC Summary**: Some globals in the browser and jest environments have been deprecated, and we have maintained them for backwards compatibility reasons for our users.

**TSC Question**: Should we remove the deprecated globals in ESLint 5.0?

* :+1: from @alberto, @mysticatea, @not-an-aardvark, @gyandeeps, @ilyavolodin, @kaicataldo, @btmills

**Resolution**: The issue is accepted.

### [Scheduled release for April 13th, 2018](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10155)

* @kaicataldo
* @btmills
