# 2018-August-30 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2018/08/30

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC

## Topics

### [Requiring 2FA for the ESLint GitHub organization](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10630)

> **TSC Summary**: GitHub allows an organization to require 2FA to be enabled for all of its members. Having everyone use 2FA would improve the security of our repository and release process. If an organization enables this setting, all members who don't have 2FA enabled are automatically removed from the organization.
>
> **TSC Question**:
>
> * Should we enable this setting?
> * There are 7 organization members who don't have 2FA enabled right now [note: 2 remaining members at the time of the meeting]. If we decide to enable this setting, what kind of timeline should we give people for turning on 2FA before we enable the setting? (Presumably, we would contact everyone and request that they enable it. It might be a good idea to set a specific date when we'll enable the setting so that it doesn't stretch on indefinitely if someone is unresponsive.)

* There is consensus that we want to enable the setting.
* Everyone with 2FA disabled received an email requesting that they enable 2FA on August 16th.
* If we enable the requirement, everyone with 2FA disabled would be removed from the organization. We would then send them an invite back to the organization, and they would need to enable 2FA before accepting the invite.
* There is consensus among those present (@not-an-aardvark, @ilyavolodin, @kaicataldo, and @platinumazure) that we should enable the setting in two weeks (on September 13th). However, there is not a quorum present to agree on this point.

**Resolution:** We will enable the setting. @not-an-aardvark, @ilyavolodin, @kaicataldo, and @platinumazure are in favor of enabling it on September 13th. If a TSC member who was not present adds a :+1: to [this comment](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10630#issuecomment-417454558), that date will be official.

### [Requiring 2FA for npm publishes](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10631)

> **TSC Summary**: npm has an option to require a 2FA code to be entered when publishing any particular package. This would improve the security of our releases because it would prevent a malicious release in the event that (a) a TSC member's GitHub or npm account is compromised, or (b) the Jenkins server is non-persistently compromised. If we enabled this, we would probably do releases by sharing the 2FA private key among the users who are allowed to do the release, and entering a TOTP code into jenkins during the release process.
>
> **TSC Question**: Should we require 2FA for npm publishes?

* There is general agreement that it would be a good idea to improve the security of the publishing script.
* There are concerns that the implementation of this idea might be difficult with existing build infrastructure until npm implements time-limited publishing tokens. It might be worth reaching out to npm to get more details on the timing of this.
* Requiring 2FA for publishes would not prevent an attacker from eventually publishing a malicious package if they compromised a TSC member's GitHub account, because an attacker could either (a) push malicious code to GitHub right before a release, or (b) log into Jenkins and tamper with the server by configuring build scripts, such that the next time someone enters a TOTP code when publishing, the code is used to publish a malicious package instead. Nonetheless, requiring 2FA would significantly increase the required complexity of such an attack.
* There is general agreement that enabling 2FA on GitHub is a higher priority.
* In addition/as an alternative to requiring 2FA, we could also change the permissions on the Jenkins server so that fewer people can modify build scripts.

**Resolution:** No consensus, tabling the issue for next meeting.

### [Scheduled release for August 31st, 2018](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10780)

**Resolution:** @kaicataldo and @platinumazure will do the release.

### [Creating a HackerOne program](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/97#issuecomment-413672784)

* Not enough people are left to have a quorum on this issue.

**Resolution:** No consensus. This will be discussed next meeting unless there are enough :+1:s on the [agenda comment](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/97#issuecomment-413672784) to approve it.
