# 2018-November-08 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2018/11/08

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Nicholas Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC

## Topics

### [Implement an RFC process for significant changes](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11047)

**TSC Summary:** This proposal seeks to introduce an RFC process for feature development and other significant changes. It would involve creating a markdown document and submitting it to an RFC repo where the feedback would be given and worked into the submission. When the proposal is accepted, it would be merged and remain as an artifact explaining the design and motivation for the change. A PR could then be submitted to the main ESLint repo without opening an issue.

**TSC Question:** Shall we accept this proposal? (I'm willing to write up the first RFC so we can evaluate the process and make tweaks.)

* How do we define a "significant change"? @nzakas listed in the [original issue](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11047#issue-376463148) new CLI features, new core features, new rules, and breaking changes.
* Raising the bar for contributions could be a feature as far as it encourages people to create new rules in plugins.
* People may just create new issues in the `eslint/eslint` repo anyway, causing increased triage burden.
* Proposal to trial the RFC process on new CLI features, new core features, and breaking changes only, then consider including rules later.
* :+1: from @btmills, @platinumazure, @nzakas, @ilyavoldoin, @kaicataldo, @mysticatea, @not-an-aardvark

**Resolution**: New CLI features, new core features, and breaking changes will go through the RFC process, and we can iterate on that to determine if it makes sense for new rules. @nzakas will setup the RFC repo and templates.

### [How do we maintain Doctrine?](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/107#issuecomment-437100420)

@kaicataldo would like to discuss how we want to approach maintaining Doctrine going forward.

1. Can we drop support for Node <6 and cut a major release? I'm happy to do the legwork.
1. Given the current team's lack of knowledge of the codebase and the growing number of stale issues and PRs, I feel like we should decide if we want to either commit to maintaining and updating Doctrine or decide that we will not and seek out alternatives (either using an alternative parser or sunsetting JSDoc support in core rules and help start/encourage the creation of a community driven plugin)

* There's now an actively-maintained JSDoc plugin: https://github.com/gajus/eslint-plugin-jsdoc
* We also have a `getJSDocComment` method in core that does not consume Doctrine, but rules like `valid-jsdoc` do.

#### Do we drop support for Node.js < v6 in a major release of Doctrine?

* :+1: from @nzakas, @platinumazure, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea, @btmills, @kaicataldo

**Resolution**: @kaicataldo will cut a major release of Doctrine that drops support for Node.js < v6.

#### Do we want to maintain Doctrine?

* :+1: to minimizing or eliminating maintenance of Doctrine from @nzakas, @platinumazure (if we can find a viable alternative), @not-an-aardvark (if we can find a viable alternative), @btmills, @mysticatea.

**Resolution**: We'd prefer not to maintain Doctrine provided there is an alternative available.

#### How do we stop maintaining Doctrine?

* Rules like `valid-jsdoc` make heavy use of Doctrine.
* What happens if bugs in e.g. `valid-jsdoc` affect ESLint itself?
* We could dogfood usage of `eslint-plugin-jsdoc` in ESLint itself to smooth the recommended migration path.
* Proposal to dogfood `eslint-plugin-jsdoc` internally, then deprecate (keep, but stop making changes to) JSDoc-related functionality in ESLint and recommend using `eslint-plugin-jsdoc`.
* :+1: from @btmills, @nzakas, @kaicataldo, @platinumazure, @mysticatea, @not-an-aardvark

**Resolution**: @kaicataldo will lead dogfooding of `eslint-plugin-jsdoc` followed by eventual deprecation of JSDoc-related functionality and recommendation of `eslint-plugin-jsdoc` instead.

### [Breaking: remove attachComment option in Espree](https://github.com/eslint/espree/issues/394)

**TSC Summary:** Now that ESLint [does not use the `attachComment` option](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/7516) and given its buggy nature and maintenance cost, I think we should remove the option from Espree.

**TSC Question:** This is a breaking change, however I suspect that very few other projects are using this option.

* :+1: from @platinumazure, @nzakas, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @kaicataldo, @mysticatea
* Since this doesn't affect ESLint, it doesn't need to wait for a major ESLint release.

**Resolution**: @kaicataldo will remove the `attachComment` option from Espree.

### [Scheduled release for November 9th, 2018](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11030)

**Resolution**: @btmills and @nzakas will do the release.
