# 1-Feb-2018 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2018/02/01

## Attending

* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC
* alberto (@alberto) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC

## Topics

### [JSCS Compatibility](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/73#issuecomment-358812681)

* TSC Question: "How are we doing on JSCS compatibility? Are we done yet? If not, what can we do to finish that off?"
* :+1: from @kaicataldo, @platinumazure, @alberto, @btmills, @mysticatea, @not-an-aardvark, 

**Resolution**: The TSC should go over all the issues and ensure that the design is hashed out so that team approval is not blocking finishing this work. The TSC will then re-evaluate when this work is done and potentially set a soft deadline for completion (the current suggestion being the next major release).

### [Dropping support for Node 4 in v5.0.0](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/73#issuecomment-358812829)

* TSC Question: "There was talk of possibly waiting on v5.0.0 until May when Node 4 hits end-of-life. As a TSC, should we agree to drop support for Node 4 in ESLint v5? If so, I think we should add a note or an issue to the v5.0.0 project."
* Do we need to tie ESLint's v5 release to Node 4's end-of-life?
* :+1: from @kaicataldo, @platinumazure, @alberto, @btmills, @mysticatea, @not-an-aardvark, 

**Resolution**: Table this discussion for now because consensus could not be reached quickly.

### [Include debugging information when rule throws error](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/9742)

* TSC Summary: When a rule crashes, there isn't a lot of good debugging information available. This pull request uses the debug module to log the currently linted file, parser options, parser path, and shared plugin settings object when a rule throws an unhandled exception, and could be augmented to include information on the node in question.
* TSC Question: Should we accept this enhancement?
* :+1: from @kaicataldo, @platinumazure, @alberto, @btmills, @mysticatea, @not-an-aardvark, 

**Resolution**: This issue is now accepted.

### [no-unused-vars should report all unused function parameters that match the configured setting](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9909)

* TSC Summary: This issue proposes changing the behavior of after-used in no-unused-vars to report all parameters after the final used parameter, rather than only reporting the last parameter, if there are multiple unused parameters at the end of a parameter list.
* TSC Question: Should this be considered a breaking change? Should we add a last-only option for users who want to retain the current behavior?

* :+1: from @kaicataldo, @alberto, @btmills, @mysticatea, @not-an-aardvark
* @platinumazure abstained from voting

**Resolution**: This issue is now accepted as a semver-minor bugfix. We will not add a `last-only` option right now.

### [Transferring eslint-cli to eslint organization](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9602)
* :+1: from @kaicataldo, @alberto, @btmills, @mysticatea, @not-an-aardvark, @platinumazure

**Resolution**: Move `eslint-cli` into the `eslint` organization and gather feedback from users to determine whether or not we should officially recommend it.

### [Do we want to maintain babel-eslint?](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/73#issuecomment-359106333)
**Resolution**: Make an issue to discuss further.
