# 2018-July-19 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2018/07/19

## Attending

* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC

## Topics

### [Store information for files with lint warnings and errors in cache](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9948)

**TSC Summary**:

`eslint --cache` currently only caches files that passed linting. This is useful for users who have fully integrated ESLint into their codebase, so most of their files should be passing at any given time. However, for users that have not yet fully integrated ESLint (i.e., users who are still cleaning up lint errors), the cache becomes useless because most files are *not* passing at any given time, and we currently don't cache files which failed linting. It was suggested that files which failed linting could be cached, as long as we check that they haven't been modified between the cache time and the next lint run (in other words, following the same logic we follow for successfully linted files in the cache).

One challenge is that we currently include the entire source code of files with linting problems in the lint results object. This could result in the cache file growing significantly if there are a lot of files which failed linting. A possible approach to avoid this is to remove the source property when caching the lint results, and then when retrieving results from the cache, simply read the file from the filesystem again. This will slow the overall cache performance for files that failed linting, but still be much faster than reading, parsing, and linting the file again. (PR #10571 follows this approach.)

**TSC Question**: Should we add files which failed linting to the lint results cache?

:+1: from @gyandeeps, @btmills, @not-an-aardvark, @kaicataldo, @ilyavolodin

**Resolution**: The issue is accepted.

### [Warning for ignored files on linting](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9977)

**TSC Summary**: This issue proposes adding a command-line flag to disable "this file is ignored" warnings for ignored files, and instead simply report no errors when a path to an ignored file is provided. This would be useful for integrations (many integrations currently get around this problem by manually filtering out reports that match the "this file is ignored" message).

**TSC Question**: Should we accept this proposal?

* https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10587 is a related but different issue requesting an option to ignore unmatched file patterns (e.g. `nonexistent/*.js`), which, as of 5.0, result in fatal errors.
* We currently have an undocumented `warnIgnored` option in `CLIEngine` that some integrations use.
* Is the presence of `warnIgnored` on `CLIEngine` sufficient to warrant making an equivalent flag available on the  CLI?
* [`isPathIgnored()`](https://eslint.org/docs/developer-guide/nodejs-api#cliengineispathignored) is already an exposed API. Should we recommend that instead?
* Due to time constraints, tabling this until next week. @btmills to propose a way to use `isPathIgnored()` as an alternative solution on the issue.

### [Scheduled release for July 20th, 2018](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10593)

* @ilyavolodin
* @not-an-aardvark
