# 2024-10-17 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2024-10-17-transcript.md`](2024-10-17-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:** A bit of work on @eslint/json to allow trailing commas in JSONC and otherwise just trying to get caught up on notifications.
* **@mdjermanovic:** working on `Language#defaultLanguageOptions`, fixed the `markdown/no-missing-label-refs` rule, and updated repos to use prerendered sponsors.
* **@fasttime:** did the release, worked on removing jiti v1.21 and fixing Windows path handling in config-array, and did some minor fixes. Also triaged and reviewed issues and PRs.


### RFC Duty Schedule

* October 14: @fasttime
* October 21: @nzakas
* October 28: @mdjermanovic

### [chore: add pkg.type "commonjs"](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/19011)

Should we merge this PR?

**Resolution:** merge approved

### [Expose acorn plugin from espree module](https://github.com/eslint/js/issues/623)

> @nzakas: This asks to expose the Acorn plugin from Espree. While I'm not in favor of exposing it via the espree package, I'm starting to think it could be beneficial to expose it through another package.

> Basically, as a toolkit for people who want to customize Acorn and still have it usable through ESLint.

> I ran into this experimenting with a TypeScript Acorn plugin, where I ended up needing to re-implement a lot of the fixes that Espree does to the AST. 

**Resolution:** team is generally in favor and will follow up on this.

**Action Items:** @mdjermanovic will look at the details over the weekend

### [Change Request: Create supported versions policy](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/18621)

Everything seems to have been completed. Can we close this?

**Resolution:** Issue has been closed.

### Scheduled release for October 18th, 2024

**Action Items:**

- @fasttime will release all packages
- @mdjermanovic will submit an issue to `release-please`

