# 2024-09-19 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2024-09-19-transcript.md`](2024-09-19-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:** has been working on the processors refactor, the alternate config lookup PR, and adding disable directives to `@eslint/markdown`.
* **@mdjermanovic:** mostly working on our release infrastructure and v8.57.1 release
* **@fasttime:** fixed the types, backported fixes to v8.x, and was busy reviewing issues and PRs

### RFC Duty Schedule

* September 23: @fasttime
* September 20: @nzakas
* October 7: @mdjermanovic

### [feat: Implement alternate config lookup](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/18742)

This is high priority. It's pretty complex and we'd like to get it merged as soon as we have it mostly working to avoid difficult conflict resolution. 

**Action Items:**  Everyone to help check review this PR

### 2024 Finances

While checking our finances for 2024, @nzakas realized that we've spent more than we've taken in this year. ($66,000; and we are on track to spend $90,000). This is unsustainable. 

We should discuss a short term and long term plan. Our goal should be to end up at $15,000-20,000 per month; right now we are a little less than $10,000. We've typically managed things so that we always have a least a year's worth of expenses in reserve, just to make sure we wouldn't run out of money quickly.

**Possible Solutions:**
* Reduce spending
* Increase income
* Reach out to folks that canceled sponsorships in the past
* Do a "Call for sponsorships" blog post
* Do a banner similar to the one Wikipedia has calling for donations
* Open a discussion saying that we would like to start a campaign to collect funds for ESLint development
* Create a new top tier of $5,000 a month

**Action Items:**  

* @nzakas will set up a new top tier of $5,000
* @fasttime will post a discussion on Discord calling for ideas for a campaign to collect funds for ESLint

### Scheduled release for September 20th, 2024

**Action Items:**

- @mdjermanovic will release the following:

  - `eslint/eslint`
  - `@eslint/js`