# 2024-09-05 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2024-09-05-transcript.md`](2024-09-05-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:**  been working on the new config resolution behavior, extracting the processor logic from the core, Code Explorer, plugin kit, and add types everywhere.
* **@mdjermanovic:** was mostly reviewing PRs and RFCs. Also updated eslint core to support disable directives in languages that don't provide `comment.value` and started work on updates to our relase infrastructure to support releasing updates to previous major versions.
* **@fasttime:** been also mostly busy triaging and reviewing PRs and RFCs. Also prepared an RFC to add the [plugins website](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/123)

### RFC Duty Schedule

* September 9: @nzakas
* September 16: @mdjermanovic
* September 23: @fasttime

### [feat: Support updates to previous major versions](https://github.com/eslint/eslint-release/pull/62)

Our formal [EOL](https://eslint.org/version-support/) for `v8.x` is 2024-10-05, so we do have a bit of a time constraint if we want to stick to that announced date. 

**Action Items:** 
* @nzakas is going to do a blog post next week announcing it and the formal version support policy that we posted. 
* [HeroDevs](https://www.herodevs.com/) will coordinate a blog post on their end as well.
* @mdjermanovic will port the PR for `Makefile.js` in `eslint/eslint` to `v8.x-dev` and do an early release as soon as we feel confident it's ready for release

### [feat: Add types](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/18854)

This PR moves type definitions from `@types/eslint` to `eslint/eslint`. It would be great to get this into the 2024-09-06 release if possible.

**Action Items:** @nzakas will add some integration tests for the types.

### [refactor: Extract processor logic into ProcessorService](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/18818)

> **@nzakas:** I've been working on extracting the processor logic into its own class and came across a problematic scenario: processors are currently passing the raw text from a file, including the BOM, into their `preprocess()` function...but it's easy to forget to check for the presence of the BOM and this seems like a footgun for developers. (Our own Markdown processor doesn't even check for it.); so it seems like a good idea to not pass the raw text, but rather, the text with the BOM removed. But there is also a use case where processors return the entire file as one block, in which case we want to preserve the BOM.

> **@nzakas:** Ultimately I think there's a better solution than processors for this use case of wanting to lint the entire file plus the blocks: [feat: Prelint plugins](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/105)

**Resolution:** @nzakas will revert to passing the text with the BOM for now

**Action Items:** @nzakas will open an issue to discuss changing it in `v10`.

### Do we want to create official language plugins for YAML and CSS?

These, along with Markdown and JSON, were the top-four most requested languages to support when I asked on Twitter/Mastodon.

**Resolution:** we've agreed to make official language plugins for YAML and CSS. For CSS I think we can use Postcss as the parser. Need to investigate a bit more for YAML.

### [Contributor Pool for August 2024](https://github.com/issues?q=org%3Aeslint+label%3A%22contributor+pool%22+merged%3A2024-08-01..2024-08-31)

- @aryaemami59: $1,500 for eslint/eslint#18134
- @zhangenming: $200 for eslint/eslint.org#546
- @reduckted: $100 for eslint/eslint#18716

### Scheduled release for September 6th, 2024

**Action Items:**

- @fasttime will release the following:

  - `eslint/eslint`
  - `@eslint/js`