# 2024-05-16 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2024-05-16-transcript.md`](2024-05-16-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### [How to Organize `@eslint/js` Poll Results](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/discussions/18428)

Looks like monorepo with separate packages won 73-26

### Statuses

> @nzakas I spent a lot of time working on implementing the [JS language object](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/18448). Per the RFC. This will set us up to swap in other languages soonish. I also worked on the compat utility and published the post for that. Then, continued seeking people out who've had bad migration experiences to see what could be done to help.

> @mdjermanovic I spent most of the time reviewing PRs and checking whether everything will work well with the new @eslint packages

> @fasttime I've tried to always keep an eye on the ESLint board, worked on [feat: add method isFileConfigured](https://github.com/eslint/rewrite/pull/7). Reviewed [TypeScript config RFC](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/117) and talked to the author of tsx to discuss some issues I observed while testing the implementation.

### RFC Delays

> It seems like RFCs are not getting reviewed in a timely fashion. The most recent was open for two weeks before any TSC member commented (me). We need to be paying more attention to these. I'd like to suggest that we have a formal "RFC duty" where we rotate through each week who is responsible for caretaking RFCs.

**Resolution:** We are going to try the RFC duty rotation idea for four weeks and review in the next to TSC meeting to see how is going.

**Action Items:** 

The first three scheduled rotations will be:

* Week of May 20: @mdjermanovic
* Week of May 27: @fasttime
* Week of June 3: @nzakas

### Improve Feedback Loop

> I'm finding that I need to re-ping the TSC multiple times on issues where I'm looking for feedback, sometimes over the course of multiple weeks. How can we tighten up the feedback loop?

> @mdjermanovic There's a lot of context switching in this kind of project, and when switching between tasks, it takes a lot of energy to get back to the context to be able to provide some meaningful thinking. I usually start with tasks that feel like a high priority or look like they could be resolved quickly so that they don't pile up. But then new tasks that seem like a higher priority pop up and push the remaining ones down the waiting queue, so some end up waiting too long. Perhaps we could introduce a rule for us that a ping/question must be responded to in a reasonable timeframe (3 working days?) to shift priorities a bit.

**Resolution:** 

1. The person making the ping will add the `tsc waiting` label to the issue.
2. If others need some time to review first, they'll leave a comment saying so with an expected date.
3. When the last TSC member has posted their full response (not just the "I need time" comment), they'll remove the `tsc waiting` label.

**Action Items:** @fasttime will create the label `tsc waiting`

### v9 Migration Assistance

It seems like we are getting more reports of people being blocked on migrating to v9. Either they can't figure out how to migrate, or they're stuck by something in the ecosystem. What else can we do to help aid migration?

> @nzakas As I mentioned, I think it's probably time to look at a migration tool. I'm not sure how effective it can be, but even if it gets things 80% of the way there, that seems like an improvement from the situation now.

**Resolution:** 

* We will work on a migration tool
* We will [update](https://github.com/eslint/eslint-transforms/issues/25) `eslint-transforms`

**Action Items:** @nzakas will take action on migration tool

### Scheduled release for May 17th, 2024

**Action Items:**

- @fasttime will release the following:

  - `eslint`
  - `@eslint/create-config`
  - `eslint/js`