# 2024-04-18 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2024-04-18-transcript.md`](2024-04-18-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Preparing for TSC Meetings
When preparing for an upcoming TSC meeting, make sure to go over [When to Send to TSC](https://eslint.org/docs/latest/maintain/manage-issues#when-to-send-to-tsc) docs. Issues that need to be discussed in a TSC meeting will have the `tsc agenda` label.


### Tracking Issue's Progress
We have a lot of issues with no progress or feedback for months. We could go over the [RFCs statuses](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pulls) and discuss them in future meeting.


**Action Items:** @fasttime will review the RFCs next week

### Google Doc
@nzakas: still waiting for @mdjermanovic to comment on the Google Doc. 


> @nzakas: I'm going to proceed under the assumption that we'd like to fork object-schema and config-array, and put those in a new rewrite monorepo to get us started. Then we can follow up with other functionality and figure out where to go from there.

> @fasttime so, we will still be using the current repos for the ESLint v9 dependencies, but have a fork in a different repo for the rewrite? 

> @nzakas: the idea would be to swap out the dependencies for the rewrite ones and then slowly moved functionality that will be common between v9 and the rewrite into the rewrite repo. So ultimately v9 and the rewrite will end up with some of the same dependencies, making it easier to upgrade both.

### Scheduled release for April 18th, 2024

**Action Items:**

- @fasttime will release the following:
  - `@eslint/js`
  - `eslint`

