# 2024-05-02 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2024-05-02-transcript.md`](2024-05-02-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### RFC Goals

For RFCs, the goal is to determine if the proposal seems directionally correct and appropriate to include in ESLint. So if you think the proposal makes sense and is technically feasible, you can approve it. Once we've all approved, then we merge it and it's ready to go.

If you're not sure if the author is still working on a RFC; the best thing is to add a comment and at-mention the author and ask if they're still working on it. Finally, if there has not been any progress on a RFC for a while, add a `tsc agenda` label, summary and question to get resolved in the next meeting.

### v9 Compatibility Challenges
Seems the biggest problem with v9 at the moment is plugins compatibility. Good idea to provide `@eslint/compat`.

### `rewrite` core repo
The intent with this is to start pulling in pieces that will be used both in the current version of ESLint and in a rewritten core. One of the goals for that repo is that everything is typed-checked by tsc even though it's written in JavaScript.

The overall idea is to be able to work on the rewrite and the current version of ESLint in parallel as we try things out.

That's the `rewrite` repo in a nutshell. Once we get far enough along, it'll be time to look at what a rewritten core should be, so there will be an RFC around that.

### Direction for the `@eslint/js` package

As mentioned in the Google doc, there are two ways to go with this:

1. Create a monorepo and move things like Espree, eslint-scope, etc. into it as separate packages.
2. Create a regular repo where `@eslint/js` is the only package and it exports the parser via `@eslint/js/parser`, `eslint-visitor-keys` as `@eslint/js/visitor-keys`, etc.

**Resolution:** We will post a poll in a Discussion and see what people prefer.

**Action Items:** @nzakas will create the poll

### [Contributor Pool for May 2024](https://github.com/issues?q=org%3Aeslint+label%3A%22contributor+pool%22+merged%3A2024-04-01..2024-04-30)

- @DMartens: $750 for #246, #247 and #18235
- @webpro: $100 for #18272
- @kirkwaiblinger: $100 for #18269
- @eMerzh: $100 for #18232
- @Pearce-Ropion: $250 for #17662

### Scheduled release for May 3rd, 2024

**Action Items:**

- @mdjermanovic will release the following:

  - `eslint` (rc.0)
  - `eslint/js`
  - `eslint-plugin-markdown`


 


