# 2024-08-22 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2024-08-22-transcript.md`](2024-08-22-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:**  been working on `@eslint/markdown` (which I released yesterday), the `@eslint/plugin-kit` package, continuing to work on types in `@eslint/core`, and tidying up `@eslint/json`.
* **@fasttime:** been reviewing PRs and RFCs. Worked on https://github.com/eslint/rewrite/pull/59 and started working on https://github.com/eslint/rewrite/issues/64. Also had an eye on the code-explorer repo, I think it's progressing well.

### plugins.eslint.org

Now that we have `@eslint/json` and `@eslint/markdown`, should we start thinking about creating a plugins.eslint.org that we can use to host documentation for them? We've talked about this in passing before in terms of improving discoverability for plugins. I'm not sure we have the bandwidth to create something that will be generally open to all plugins at this point, but maybe we could start small and just focus on our plugins for now?

**Action Items:** @fasttime will prepare a RFC so we can discuss further and figure out the details

### RFC Duty Schedule

* Next week: @mdjermanovic
* September 2: @fasttime
* September 9: @nzakas

### Scheduled release for August 23rd, 2024

**Action Items:**

- @fasttime will release the following:

  - `eslint`
  - `@eslint/js`