# 2024-06-27 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2024-06-27-transcript.md`](2024-06-27-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:**  I've been working on the [new config loading scheme](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/120), the [JSON plugin](https://github.com/eslint/json/pull/1), and creating the `@eslint/core` package.

* **@mdjermanovic:** Similar to the previous period, I fixed several bugs in the core and was reviewing PRs

* **@fasttime:** I've done just some work on [correctly detect if file is outside base path on Windows](https://github.com/eslint/rewrite/pull/59) and taking care of the RFCs, plus some discussions

### RFC Duty Schedule

* This week: @nzakas
* June 17: @mdjermanovic 
* June 24: @fasttime

### [Change Request: Better support migrating JS config files](https://github.com/eslint/rewrite/issues/64)

**Action Items:** @fasttime will look into this after `@types/eslint`

### `@types/eslint`

What to do about it going forward?

1) The core rewrite will produce its own types in `@eslint/core`, probably with a very different API from what we have now. To that extent, I think it makes sense to build out our types as we rewrite different pieces (and I'll put together an RFC with a proposal as soon as we get past the big things I'm working on now).

2) In the interim, I think it would be good if `@types/eslint` could pull in type definitions from `@eslint/core` that make sense, so we're starting to converge type definitions. For instance, things like `Position`, `SourceLocation`, `RuleSeverity`, `Language`, etc. so we can start taking on ownership of those types ourselves.

3) I don't think it makes sense to try to completely take over maintenance of `@types/eslint`, as I don't like the idea of being beholden to DefinitelyTyped to get changes out.

**Resolution:** we'll abide by these three points. I'll write up a decision document to stick in the rewrite repo about this.

### Scheduled release for June 14th, 2024

**Action Items:**

- @mdjermanovic will release the following:

  - `eslint`
  - `@eslint/js`