# 2024-06-13 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2024-06-13-transcript.md`](2024-06-13-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses 

* **@nzakas:**  I've been working on the [config migrator, feature flags](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/18516), the refactoring around [JS language](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/18448), plus talking with sponsors and working on the [config lookup RFC](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/18385).
* **@mdjermanovic:** I fixed several bugs in the core and enabled eslint-config-eslint in the rewrite repo. Other than that, reviewing PRs and triaging issues as usual..
* **@fasttime:** I worked on fixing the [error messages](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/18404) for ignored files, then triaging issues and updating the docs. And I did the release 🙂

### [Change Request: Migrate the ESLint repository to ESM](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15560)

**TSC Summary:** This issue tracks converting the eslint repo to ESM. This was opened in 2022, and since then, we've decided to rewrite the core (in ESM) in a separate repo.

**TSC Question:** Do we still want to pursue converting the eslint repo to ESM?

**Resolution:** we are not going to go ahead with this request at the moment as we are planning on doing a full rewrite in ESM in the future. The cost/benefit of converting the ESLint repo to ESM doesn't seem justifiable at the moment.

### Review Our Sponsorships and Spending

**TSC Summary:** This past month, we spent $6,000 more than we brought in. While we're okay for now thanks to our reserves, we should keep an eye on spending going forward and still be seeking new sponsors.

> @nzakas: As I noted, I think it's important to flag this. This is the first time in ESLint's history where we have consistently spent more than we brought in for several months in a row. And this month was a big one.

> I'm constantly reaching out to people at different companies looking for sponsorships, but it's a very slow process. I'd like to ask you two to reach out into your networks, as well.

> So that's it. Just wanted it on the record so if we need to start making some changes on spending in the future, it's not a huge surprise. With our current reserves of $211,000, we could continue at roughly our current spending rate for about 18 months without any new sponsorships...I just don't want to let it get to that point.

### RFC Duty Schedule

* This week: @mdjermanovic 
* June 17: @fasttime 
* June 24: @nzakas

### [Contributor Pool for May 2024](https://github.com/issues?q=org%3Aeslint+label%3A%22contributor+pool%22+merged%3A2024-05-01..2024-05-31+)

- @rzvxa : $100 for #18515
- @KubaJastrz: $100 for #18442 
- @shulaoda: $100 for #18438
- @akulsr0: $100 for #18431 
- @kirkwaiblinger: $100 for #18222

### Scheduled release for June 14th, 2024

**Action Items:**

- @mdjermanovic will release the following:

  - `eslint`
  - `@eslint/js`
