# 2024-10-31 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2024-10-31-transcript.md`](2024-10-31-transcript.md)

## Attending

- Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
- Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
- Francesco Trotta (@fasttime) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @sam3k took notes.

## Topics

### Statuses

* **@nzakas:** has been working on the CSS plugin and adding concurrency for the `readFile` retrier.
* **@mdjermanovic:** has been working on config loader caching, new syntax, and spent a lot of time reviewing the `meta.defaultOptions` PR as it updates the core and 70+ rules.
* **@fasttime:** did the release, completed https://github.com/eslint/rewrite/pull/59 and continued working on fixing drive letter handing on Windows in ESLint. Also did some repo maintenance to fix the build and updated dependencies.


### RFC Duty Schedule

* October 28: @mdjermanovic
* November 4: @fasttime 
* November 11: @Nicholas C. Zakas 
* November 18: @mdjermanovic

### [feat: CSS language plugin](https://github.com/eslint/css/pull/2)

This PR is ready for review

**Action Items:** @mdjermanovic will take a look


### [Bug: require-atomic-updates false negative when accessing `this`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/19022)

It seems that this is excepted from the rule, and the question is whether or not that should be the case. If not, should it be a change of default or a new option? This is a valid request. But given that the way this rule works with properties is "controversial" (there were many reports for false positives) and the complexity required to support this (as it's not handled by scope manager) We're 50/50 on `accepting/wontfix`. If we do accept, it should be behind an option.

**Resolution:**  we've decided to close as wontfix.

### [Contributor Pool for October 2024](https://github.com/issues?q=org%3Aeslint+label%3A%22contributor+pool%22+merged%3A2024-10-01..2024-10-31)


- @ota-meshi: $500 for eslint/js#639
- @LiviaMedeiros: $100 for eslint/eslint#19035
- @MikeMcC399: $100 for eslint/generator-eslint#194
- @aryaemami59: $100 for eslint/eslint#18954


### Scheduled release for November 1st, 2024

**Action Items:**

- @mdjermanovic will release:
  - `eslint`
  - `@eslint/js`
  - `@eslint/eslintrc`
  - `@eslint/json`
  - `@eslint/create-config`

### Benchmark Runtime of `v9.12.0` to `v9.14.0`

After the release, I think it would be helpful to compare the runtime of v9.12.0 to v9.14.0 since we'll have implemented two perf improvements (compile cache and config array caching).

**Action Items:**

* folks should compare runtime between these two versions and report back with findings
* @mdjermanovic will ask in [this issue](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/19025) whether they notice better performance with `9.14.0`


