# 2021-09-23 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2021-09-23-transcript.md`](2021-09-23-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [v8.0.0 status](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/projects/8)

* All outstanding issues have been merged, so we can do a release candidate next! :+1: from @nzakas, @btmills, and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas reminds everyone that a release candidate contains all planned changes, so this is effectively v8.0.0 without the "latest" tag.
* @btmills notes we haven't been using the "patch release pending" label for beta releases but suggests using it for the release candidate(s). :+1: from @nzakas and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas notes we'll still wait two weeks to give people time to try the release candidate before deciding whether the next release should be another release candidate or the final release.

### [Scheduled release for September 24th, 2021](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15059)

* @mdjermanovic volunteered to run the release.
* @mdjermanovic would like to get two PRs in if people have time to review:
	* [Update: space-before-blocks ignore after switch colons (fixes #15082)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15093)
	* [Fix: preserve formatting when rules are removed from disable directives](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15081)

**Resolution**: @mdjermanovic will run a v8.0.0 release candidate.

### Website redesign update

* The designer completed brand design, which includes the logo, typography, color scheme, and overall thematic elements.
* @nzakas particularly liked two ideas, and @mdjermanovic and @btmills concurred:
	1. Leaning into developers' association of the red squiggly line in VS Code with ESLint for our brand.
	1. Emphasizing the "free and open source" nature of the software by choosing fonts that are also freely available.
* @nzakas is very happy with the work so far and observes how helpful it is that the designer is an ESLint user so already understands the vision.
