# 2021-March-25 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2021-03-25-transcript.md`](2021-03-25-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes and updated issues with resolutions.

## Topics

### [breaking: drop node v10/v13 support](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14023)

**TSC Summary:** Node.JS 10 is EOL at the end of April and Node.JS 13 EOL is the end of June.

**TSC Question:** How do we want to handle these? Should we plan on a major release to coincide with one or both?

* Do we want to start planning for v8.0.0 now?
* The new config system will require a major version in [phase 4](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13481), which is still pretty far away.
* Does ESM Espree require dropping Node.js 10 support in ESLint?
  * ESLint will still use the CJS build.
  * Based on [the Espree PR](https://github.com/eslint/espree/pull/469), the CJS build will still work in Node.js 10.
* Upgrading Ajv and potentially extracting the table formatter to drop the lodash dependency are the only significant pending changes.
* General agreement that a small major release with few user-visible changes would be nice for once.
* @nzakas proposes adding candidate issues/PRs to the [v8.0.0 project](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/projects/8) for discussion at the next TSC meeting. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @btmills will also create a v9.0.0 project for anything we want to push from v8.0.0.

**Resolution**: Add candiate changes to the [v8.0.0 project](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/projects/8) for review in the next TSC meeting.

### [New: Break on parsing errors](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/76)

* The RFC has reached final commenting and just needs approvals to merge.
* @nzakas has given a :+1: and thinks it's fleshed-out enough to move forward.
* @mdjermanovic is in favor but unsure about the proposed option's name. @nzakas suggests working on that in the implementation PR.
* @btmills is partway through a review.

### [Replace eslint.org ad unit](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/244#issuecomment-791792239)

* Do we want to consider replacing our current ad unit on eslint.org with a custom one? Right now we are getting $1 CPM, but we could get over $1.50 CPM by switching to a custom ad unit that we manage.
* We agreed via email to investigate this further. @nzakas will report back with details.

### Maintainer pay

> @nzakas: I'd like to propose we increase everyone's pay. :slight_smile: The rates we had set initially back when we were making a lot less each month, and I think we're in a good position to increase what we pay people. So, I'd like to propose that we increase the TSC/Reviewer rates to $60/hour for the first 20 hours and $30/hour for the next 20 hours as well as increasing the paid contributor rate from $25/hour to $30/hour.

* @btmills clarifies whether this is effective for March invoices. @nzakas confirms.
* :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution**: We've agreed to the increases. @nzakas will update the team repository and send an email letting everyone know.

### Contributor pool

* Since we didn't meet to discuss February, let's do both February and March now.
* @nzakas nominates JackNapis for both months, $200 total, and wants to invite them to be a paid contributor going forward. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @mdjermanovic nominates g-plane for 3 PRs in February. @nzakas suggests $100. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @btmills nominates mreinstein for Espree ESM work, but @nzakas says he's previously declined and would rather the project keep the money.
* @mdjermanovic nominates ota-meshi for [esquery fixes](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14072) at $200. :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.
* @nzakas nominates TimvdLippe, stephenwade, and fregante for [dependency slimming](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14098) at $100 each. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @mdjermanovic nominates chambo-e for [`cacheStrategy`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14119), and @nzakas suggests $150. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @mdjermanovic nominates jtbandes for [invalid fix range errors](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14119), and @nzakas suggests $100. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

### [Team pull request reviews](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/244#issuecomment-791792239)

> @nzakas: I've been having trouble getting people to review my pull requests. It seems that people are checking the chat at lot less frequently, to the point where I often need to ask several times over the course of two weeks before I can get anyone to review my pull requests. I've tried to post directly in the chat when a PR is ready to let people know. I'd like to see if we can resolve this because the longer feedback loop has really slowed me down lately. Perhaps we can prioritize team members' PRs going forward? Other ideas?

* @btmills has also noticed that Markdown plugin PRs also take a while to be reviewed and theorizes non-core repositories get noticed less
* The bot auto-adds to the Triage project now, which should help.
* @mdjermanovic has been prioritizing contributors' PRs so they don't lose enthusiasm.
* @nzakas suggests prioritizing team members' issues/PRs one day per week. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas agrees prioritizing outside contributors is good as long as it's not to the exclusion of team PRs.
* If we get stuck, is posting in Discord or @-mentioning inline preferable? @nzakas and @btmills are ambivalent. @mdjermanovic prefers @-mentions on the GitHub thread.

**Resolution**: Focus one day each week on team members' changes. @-mention the team in GitHub if something is stuck.

### [Scheduled release for March 26th, 2021](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14216)

**Resolution**: @mdjermanovic volunteered for the release.
