# 2021-07-01 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2021-07-01-transcript.md`](2021-07-01-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [v8.0.0 status](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/projects/8)

* @nzakas released Espree v8.0.0, which unblocks other items.

#### [Add Support for Top-level await](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14632)

* This is just waiting for Espree to be updated.

#### [support Class Fields](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14343)

* This one depends on Espree and `eslint-scope`.
* The [`eslint-scope` PR](https://github.com/eslint/eslint-scope/pull/69) will be part of a major release together with the switch to ESM.
* @mdjermanovic has already approved the `eslint-scope` PR, and @btmills will finish reviewing after the meeting.
* `eslint-scope`'s [ESM PR](https://github.com/eslint/eslint-scope/pull/71) will need to rebase on the class fields PR, likely pushing the release back at least a week.
* @mdjermanovic and @btmills ask if we'll do a prerelease for `eslint-scope`. @nzakas prefers going straight to the major release because we usually only do those for ESLint, and we already demonstrated the ESM change with Espree. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

#### [Remove `meta.docs.category` from core rules](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13398)

* The [implementation PR](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14594) is ready to be merged.
* The [website PR](https://github.com/eslint/website/pull/848) just needs to undo a temporary preview-only change.

#### [--report-unused-disable-directives should be autofixable](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11815)

* The [PR](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14617) was recently updated, and @mdjermanovic will take a look.

#### [Allow all directives in line comments](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14575)

* The [PR](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14656) just needs a small documentation update.
* @nzakas will take a look soon.

#### [Upgrade to Ajv version 8](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13888)

* The [PR](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/13911) still needs some changes, and there is [an issue with peer dependencies](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/13911#issuecomment-853220115).
* @nzakas asks if it's worth all this work to replace something that's mostly working already.
* @mdjermanovic cites new validations secondarily and maintenance of the old version primarily.
* @nzakas feels lack of maintenance isn't an issue since the package is working and stable.
* Everyone agrees upgrading introduces greater risk of ecosystem breakage than our known-working baseline.
* @nzakas prefers aborting the upgrade unless there's some clear value from continuing. @mdjermanovic and @btmills agree.
* @nzakas asks if we reschedule the upgrade for ESLint v9.0.0. @btmills suggests reconsidering only if we run into an issue with the current version. :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @nzakas.
* The Ajv maintainer has put significant effort into supporting ESLint, so @mdjermanovic, as the person who has been most involved, will update the issue.

**Resolution**: We will not upgrade Ajv in ESLint v8.0.0 but will revisit if we encounter an issue with Ajv v6.

#### [Add Support for RegExp match indices](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14640)

* The [PR](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14653) is ready to merge.
* The branch has failing tests, but those are unrelated and will be fixed on `master`.

### [Budget items](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/269#issuecomment-871018080)

* This continues the discussion that was cut short in the last meeting due to time.

#### Website redesign

* @nzakas has wanted to do this for a long time. Previous efforts with open source designers haven't materialized.
* @btmills is in favor of pursuing it.
* @nzakas envisions doing an information architecture audit to get a recommendation for how to better organize the docs, then moving on to visual design.
* @nzakas can ask around for designer recommendations.
* @nzakas expects around this to cost around $20,000. @btmills was thinking similarly.
* @nzakas can run point but would wait until after v8.0.0 to avoid splitting time. The redesign would start primarily offline so could work concurrently with flat config.
* @mdjermanovic is also in favor.

**Resolution**: We've allocated $20,000 for a website redesign. @nzakas will create the budget item and start when able.

#### Pay people to write blog posts

* @nzakas wants to get more activity on the blog and suggests paying people to write ESLint-focused blog posts.
* @nzakas sees sites offering $250-$350 per contributor post so proposes $300.
* Example topic ideas include "What is an AST?", "How we built our ESLint plugin", best practices, and TC39 meeting notes.
* Team members could also write posts if we have time.
* :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @btmills.

**Resolution**: We will offer to pay people to write posts for the ESLint blog. @nzakas will write up how that will work and set up the budget item.

#### Have a t-shirt design contest

* @nzakas proposes a t-shirt design contest. We would award $500 to the winner and make the design into a real t-shirt and award $150 for two runners-up.
* We already have a [shop](https://eslint.threadless.com) that ties into our Open Collective account.
* :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @btmills.

**Resolution**: We will do a t-shirt design contest. @nzakas will follow up with the budget item and rules recommendations.

### [Continuing to support `generator-eslint`](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/269#issuecomment-871018230)

> @nzakas: do we want to continue to support generator-eslint? It hasnâ€™t been updated in a while and there are a bunch of open PRs.

* @bmish recently opened [a bunch of PRs](https://github.com/eslint/generator-eslint/pulls?q=is%3Apr+author%3Abmish+) to `generator-eslint`.
* @btmills asks if @bmish wants to maintain it. @nzakas is willing to give him a shot but wanted to get agreement from the team before reviewing and merging PRs.
* @nzakas could see creating a new generator in the more distant future since Yoeman is mostly a dead platform, but not immediately.
* @btmills suggests giving @bmish commit access.
* @nzakas suggests merging these PRs, doing a release, and re-evaluating. :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @btmills.

**Resolution**: We will continue supporting `generator-eslint` as long as @bmish commits time to it.

### Contributor pool

* @nzakas nominates @snitin315. Committer pay will kick in next month in July. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas nominates @bmish. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas nominates @jacknapis for Discord help. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @mdjermanovic nominates @brettz9 for 3 ESM PRs. :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.
* @mdjermanovic nominates @ota-meshi for work to support the [regex d flag](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14653). :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.
* @mdjermanovic nominates @JoshuaKGoldberg for [fixable disable directives](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14617). :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.
* @mdjermanovic nominates @A-Katopodis for [exit on fatal error](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14730). :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.
* @nzakas proposes $400 for @brettz9, $200 each for @snitin315 and @ota-meshi, and $100 each for $bmish, @jacknapis, @JoshuaKGoldberg, and @A-Katopodis. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

### [Scheduled release for July 2nd, 2021](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14734)

* @mdjermanovic volunteers for the release but will not be available for the next three.

**Resolution**: @mdjermanovic will do the release.
