# 2021-05-06 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2021-05-06-transcript.md`](2021-05-06-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes and updated issues with resolutions.

## Topics

### [v8.0.0 status](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/projects/8)

* Is anything blocked or not progressing?
* [Breaking: define an exports field for our public API](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13654) needs an RFC. @nzakas will do that.
* [Upgrade to Ajv version 8](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13888) also needs an RFC.
  * We can easily upgrade core rules to the new schema version.
  * The RFC should outline potential issues for plugins and describe how to minimize that pain.
  * If the breakage described in the RFC is too significant, we could decide not to upgrade.
* The RFC [New: Allow All Directives in Line Comments](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/34) has been merged but has no implementation PR.
  * We closed [Update: Warn on directives in line comments (refs eslint/rfcs#34)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/12397) because it implemented an intermediate step that we're now skipping.
  * @mdjermanovic will work on the PR.
* [breaking: drop node v10/v13 support](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14023) needs to decide on a minimum version.
  * @btmills will do the research and propose a specific version range on the issue.
  * Flat config will be functional in `v8.0.0` and requires `import()`, so the version should support that.

### [Converting other modules to ESM](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/255#issuecomment-833734574)

> @nzakas: Do we want to start converting other repos to ESM?

* We would start by opening ESM conversion issues on repositories other than `eslint`.
* @mdjermanovic and @btmills are inclined to wait and see how `espree`'s conversion goes.
* @nzakas thinks `eslint-visitor-keys` would be easy to convert.
* These issues wouldn't be a priority, but they'd be on the roadmap for when someone wants to pick them up.
* :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution**: @nzakas will create ESM conversion issues on non-`eslint` repositories.

### [Removing `CLIEngine` from exported API in v8.0.0](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/255#issuecomment-833734574)

> @nzakas: Do we want to remove CLIEngine from the exported API in v8.0.0?

* `CLIEngine` was deprecated in `v7.0.0`.
* We could do this as part of [Breaking: define an exports field for our public API](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13654).
* @btmills is in favor of trying to remove it but being willing to add it back if there are too many integrations that still depend on it. We could then communicate intention to remove it in `v9.0.0`.
* There are still some `CLIEngine` features not supported by the `ESLint` API, including [`getRules()`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13454).
* `getRules()` may be needed by editor integrations.
* The [`ESLint` class RFC](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/tree/main/designs/2019-move-to-async-api) mentioned adding a `getRules()` successor, but it hasn't been added yet without a specific use case.
* @nzakas proposes excluding `CLIEngine` from `exports` and seeing what feedback we get. If we need to, we can add it back.
* :+1: from @btmills. :+1: from @mdjermanovic so we can find out what remaining APIs we need to support in the `ESLint` class.

**Resolution**: Exclude `CLIEngine` from the `exports` RFC. If feedback indicates we can't safely remove it yet, add it back and remove it in a later release.

### [Donating to `debug` and `lint-staged`](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/255#issuecomment-833736641)

> @nzakas: Agenda item: do we want to donate to support the debug module and lint-staged module?

* We already do $100/mo for Ajv, Eleventy, and Sindre Sorhus.
* @nzakas proposes the same $100/mo to each of `debug` and `lint-staged`.
* :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution**: We'll donate $100/mo to `debug` and `lint-staged`. @nzakas will include this in a sponsor update blog post.

### April contributor pool awards

* @nzakas nominates snitin315 and stephenwade. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @btmills nominates JounQin for processor work. :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @nzakas.
* @nzakas nominates JackNapis for Discord #help. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @btmills nominates bmish. :+1: from @nzakas.
* @nzakas suggests $100 to everyone.
* @mdjermanovic suggests $250 for stephenwade and $100 for everyone else. :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.

**Resolution**: $250 to stephenwade and $100 to snitin315, JounQin, JackNapis, and bmish. @nzakas will contact them.

### [Scheduled release for May 7th, 2021](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14524)

* We need to release `@eslint/eslintrc` and bump its version in `eslint` first.

**Resolution**: @btmills will do the release.
