# 2021-11-04 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2021-11-04-transcript.md`](2021-11-04-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [do we still want to maintain [eslint-cli]?](https://github.com/eslint/eslint-cli/issues/17)

* Now that `npx` is readily available, `eslint-cli` is no longer necessary. Do we want to continue to maintain `eslint-cli`?
* @nzakas, @btmills, and @mdjermanovic are all in favor of archiving it.

**Resolution**: @btmills will archive the repository.

### [Change Request: If `ecmaVersion: latest` pass `ecmaVersion: 6` to eslint-scope](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15256)

* If a custom parser passes `ecmaVersion: "latest"` in `parserOptions`, it isn't normalized, and `"latest"` is passed to `eslint-scope`, which doesn't support `"latest"`. `eslint-scope` only cares whether `ecmaVersion` is greater than 5 so doesn't necessarily need a formal version.
* @mdjermanovic suggested updating `eslint-scope` to support `"latest"`, but @nzakas is not in favor because custom parsers can use arbitrary values for `ecmaVersion`.
* @nzakas proposes `eslint` pass through numeric values of `ecmaVersion` to `eslint-scope` and normalize non-numeric values to `6`. That logic belongs in `eslint` because `eslint` already normalizes config values so can decide how to pass an unknown value to `eslint-scope`. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution**: `eslint` will normalize `ecmaVersion` for custom parsers before passing it to `eslint-scope`.

### [feat: pass cwd to formatters (refs eslint/rfcs#57)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/13392)

* This implements an approved RFC to make `cwd` accessible to formatters, but it was never labeled as accepted.
* @btmills can pick it up if someone else doesn't get to it first.

**Resolution**: Mark it as accepted and move forward.

### [New Rule: disallow bidirectional control characters and homoglyphs to mitigate trojan source attacks](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15240)

* Per @mdjermanovic, this is issue has two parts: homoglyphs and bidirectional characters.
* Our current rules do not protect against homoglyphs. `no-undef` would not apply because an attacker would insert a function with a visually-identical name and call it instead. `no-unused-vars` would not apply if any references to the original function remained.
* @nzakas asks if we want rules like this in core or a security plugin. @btmills, @mdjermanovic, and @nzakas all prefer a security plugin.
* @nzakas reached out to the `eslint-plugin-security` team to see about taking ownership, getting it moving again, and trying to find a home for it.
* @nzakas proposes tabling this in the meeting, attempting to devise a solution in the issue, and waiting for a response from `eslint-plugin-security`. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution**: Work on a solution in the issue and see what the `eslint-plugin-security` team says.

### [feat: RuleTester supports processor](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/31)

* [Add `physicalFilename` option into rule tester](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14800) came up in a previous meeting, and @btmills updated the RFC. It is now ready for review. Just FYI, no decision needed in the meeting.

### Class static blocks

* @mdjermanovic is starting work on class static blocks.
* @nzakas, @btmills, and @mdjermanovic all prefer smaller PRs because they're more efficient to review.

### Website redesign

* Sara has started working on the new site.
* @nzakas set up temporary marketing and docs site repositories for her to work in. This allows us to preview the new site before incorporating the code back into the main repository.

### Flat config

* @nzakas has `Linter` updated and working. Updating tests has uncovered two bugs.
* @nzakas will open an issue to gether feedback about normalizing `languageOptions` for custom parsers.
* Flat config is feeling much nicer than eslintrc.

### Contributor pool

* @btmills nominates Gautam-Arora24 for implementing `prefer-object-has-own`. :+1: from @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas nominates JackNapis and kepeniukas for Discord help. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @mdjermanovic nominates Yash-Singh1 for https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15077. :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.
* @nzakas nominates thomasgilmore95 for work on the blog. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas proposes $200 for Gautam-Arora24 and $100 for each of the rest. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution**: Award $200 to Gautam-Arora24 and $100 to each of JackNapis, kepeniukas, Yash-Singh1, and thomasgilmore95. @nzakas will contact them.

### [Scheduled release for November 5th, 2021](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15214)

* @mdjermanovic volunteers for the release.
* @mdjermanovic requests review of [feat: add `allowProperties` option to require-atomic-updates](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15238) and [feat: report class evaluation TDZ errors in no-use-before-define](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15134) beforehand.

**Resolution**: @mdjermanovic will do the release.
