# 2021-February-11 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2021-02-11-transcript.md`](2021-02-11-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes and updated issues with resolutions.

## Topics

### [Add a way to disable a plugin](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14026)

**TSC Summary:** This proposal seeks a way to disable a plugin that has been included by a shared config. Essentially, a way to say "I want the shared config *except* for this plugin it's including." Disabling the plugin would mean disabling all rules, unregistering processors, removing environments, etc.

**TSC Question:** Shall we accept this proposal?

* @nzakas is not a fan, doesn't think this is a common enough need to build into core, and points out that ESLintRC is now frozen.
* @btmills is concerned about implementing this in a way that wouldn't cause cascading breakage but would be slightly less negatively inclined if it were scoped to just rules.
* @mysticatea doesn't see a great need for this feature.
* A possible futere extension to the flat config `context` API could allow doing this in userland, but that's not possible currently.
* @mdjermanovic sees some value but is not in favor given alternatives and implementation complexity.

**Resolution**: This proposal is rejected.

### [Plugin initialization API](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/42#issuecomment-777205956)

**TSC Summary**: ESLint assumes that each rule and source file can be processed independently. `typescript-eslint` (ref [#42 (comment)](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/42#issuecomment-561296926)) and `eslint-plugin-import` (ref [#42 (comment)](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/42#issuecomment-536586884)) need to do upfront initialization work beyond the scope of a single rule and source file, specifically loading type information and tracing a module graph. Lacking a first-class API, they have inserted these initialization steps into the regular rule linting flow.

If we were to ship parallel linting without supporting this use case, the duplicated initialization could make parallel linting _slower_ than single-threaded linting with these plugins. The large number of ESLint users who also use one of these plugins would not benefit from parallel linting.

This API would need to provide the plugin with the config and list of files to be linted, and parallel linting would need a way to share the result with workers.

**TSC Question**: Are we interested in an RFC for a plugin initialization API? If so, is that functionality a prerequisite for parallel linting?

#### Do we want a plugin initialization API?

* This has been discussed in parallel linting threads for a couple years, and @btmills feels it's important to support.
* @nzakas suggests there may be a way for ESLint to share pre-parsed ASTs with `eslint-plugin-import` to avoid redundant parsing.
* @mysticatea points out that `eslint-plugin-import` needs to follow platform/tool-specific path resolution logic. @nzakas doesn't see that as a blocker. @btmills would want to keep the various `eslint-import-resolver-*` packages separate.
* For context, [based on download counts](https://npm-stat.com/charts.html?package=eslint&package=%40typescript-eslint%2Feslint-plugin&package=eslint-plugin-import), roughly 1/2 of ESLint users use `typescript-eslint`, and roughly 2/3 use `eslint-plugin-import`.
* @btmills would rather offer a first-class API because these use cases are already happening without one. @nzakas thinks it's worth exploring.
* @mysticatea thinks we should explore a plugin initialization API in a separate RFC. :+1: from @btmills, @mdjermanovic, and @nzakas.

#### Should the plugin initialization RFC block the parallel linting RFC?

* @btmills prefers having a plugin initialization API before shipping parallel linting. Without such an API, only a minority of users would benefit from parallel linting when we release it, which would be a bummer. @nzakas agrees.
* @mysticatea believes plugin initialization and parallel linting have benefits independent of each other, so we can add plugin initialization at any time and do not need to block parallel linting.
* @mdjermanovic prefers to do plugin initialization first because most users wouldn't see the benefits of parallel linting without it.
* @mysticatea is willing to go along with the rest of the team.
* @btmills offers to open an issue to gather requirements and move discussion off of the parallel linting RFC.

**Resolution**: We will pursue a plugin initialization API in a new RFC and have that work completed before finalizing parallel linting, and @btmills will open a new issue to gather requirements.

### [checking test coverage](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10415#issuecomment-771713704)

TSC Summary: This issue proposes to introduce something like `coveralls`, to check test coverage changes.

TSC Question: Shall we accept it?

* @nzakas doesn't see much value from code coverage. We used to run coveralls, but didn't use it much.
* Tests still generate a coverage report, but coveralls hasn't been updated since 2017.
* @mysticatea uses codecov in projects and thinks the coverage report is valuable to prospective users. Per @mdjermanovic, `typescript-eslint` also uses codecov.
* @btmills is open to either codecov or coveralls and will defer details to whoever takes the initiative to set it up.
* @nzakas is slightly :-1: and doesn't think there's much value but doesn't feel strongly.
* @mysticatea doesn't have strong opinions but likes coverage badges.
* @nzakas proposes letting @aladdin-add take the lead on code coverage integration. :+1: from @btmills, @mdjermanovic, and @mysticatea.

**Resolution**: We're open to @aladdin-add re-configuring a code coverage tool.

### [Consider conventional commits](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/238#issuecomment-775591523)

> @nzakas: Agenda item: should we consider switching to [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/)?   Doing so would allow us to adopt already-available tooling for releases rather than maintain our own. For example [Release-please](https://github.com/googleapis/release-please) would solve our problem around major releases. This would be a bunch of work, but could allow us to move off of Jenkins. 

* @btmills is open to conventional commits to get rid of custom release infrastructure but would prioritize it below flat config and parallel linting because the current tools work well outside of prereleases blocking minor releases.
* @mdjermanovic asks if the tools could be configured to our existing convention. Per @nzakas, most are tied to conventional commits.
* @nzakas notes many big projects already use conventional commits, so this could lower the bar for new contributors.
* If this is a direction we'd like to go, @nzakas will open an issue to gather feedback and put together an RFC once flat config is done. :+1: from @btmills, @mdjermanovic, and @mysticatea.

**Resolution**: We'd like to head in the direction of conventional commits. @nzakas will open an issue to start the discussion.

### [Old markdown plugin issues](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/238#issuecomment-776178614)

> @nzakas: Agenda item: There are some very old issues opened on `eslint-plugin-markdown`. Do we intend to address them or should we close them?

* @btmills proposes closing the old issues as nice to have but not a high priority. @nzakas concurs.

**Resolution**: @btmills will review and close outstanding issues.

### [New triage process check-in](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/238#issuecomment-775591997)

> @nzakas: Agenda item: let’s followup on the new triage process and see what changes, if any, we should make to get things going.

* @nzakas will send an update email to the team.
* @btmills has tried it and found an improvement but has no concrete feedback.
* @mdjermanovic wants to sort project columns with newly-added items first. @nzakas isn't aware this is possible but will check.

**Resolution**: Continue checking in periodically.

### [Scheduled release for February 12th, 2021](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14064)

* @btmills will release `eslint-plugin-markdown@2.0.0` this weekend.

**Resolution**: @mdjermanovic will do the `eslint` release.
