# 2021-10-07 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2021-10-07-transcript.md`](2021-10-07-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [v8.0.0 status](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/projects/8)

* We had no significant feedback after the RC, so we're ready for the final v8.0.0 release.

#### [Change Request: Allow to patch ModuleResolver in ESLint 8](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15036)

* @nzakas would like to resolve this before the release and believes unfreezing the API is the path of least resistance.
* https://github.com/eslint/eslintrc/pull/56 implements that change.
* Since this is temporary until we migrate to flat config, @btmills can live with it.

**Resolution**: Unfreeze the `@eslint/eslintrc` API.

### [Flat config update](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13481#issuecomment-938149122)

> @nzakas: An update on the approach: It turned out to be too difficult to modify the `ESLint` class to toggle between the new and old config systems, so instead I'm creating a new `FlatESLint` class that will be the basis of the new config system. `cli.js` will search for the new config file and use `FlatESLint` instead of `ESLint` if found. As a final step, we will remove the original `ESLint` class and rename `FlatESLint` to `ESLint`.
* The same approach may be necessary with `Linter`.

### [Scheduled release for October 8th, 2021](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15111)

* @btmills is available.
* First merge https://github.com/eslint/eslintrc/pull/56, release `@eslint/eslintrc`, and upgrade `eslint`'s dependency on it.
* Since this follows the release candidate, only merge semver-patch changes before the release.
* In the highlights section of the blog post, include everything since and including the first beta.
* Immediately after the release, merge https://github.com/eslint/website/pull/848 in the website repository.
* `--force` can be removed from `npm install` commands at any point after the release is run.

**Resolution**: @btmills will release `v8.0.0` final.

### Website redesign update

* @nzakas is very happy with the direction and results.
* The plan includes creating illustrations for common blog post types.
* After the design phase wraps up this week, Sara Soueidan is ready to start with implementation.
* The marketing section could be live by December and docs after the holidays.
* Sara will do markup and CSS for the playground but not functionality.
* @btmills asks if the person who implements the playground's functionality would also want to do the markup and CSS, but @nzakas thinks extracting markup into components won't be a problem.

### Contributor pool

* @nzakas nominates JackNapis and kepeniukas for Discord help. :+1: from @btmills
* @nzakas nominates archmoj for https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14860. :+1: from @btmills
* @nzakas nominates AriPerkkio for https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15053. :+1: from @btmills
* @nzakas nominates thomasgilmore95 for https://github.com/eslint/website/pull/869 and https://github.com/eslint/website/pull/871. :+1: from @btmills
* @nzakas nominates platinumazure, who is eligible to invoice hours but never does. :+1: from @btmills
* @btmills nominates two people who are unable or previously declined to accept awards.
* @nzakas proposes $100 to each. :+1: from @btmills.

**Resolution**: Award $100 each to JackNapis, kepeniukas, archmoj, AriPerkkio, thomasgilmore95, and platinumazure. @nzakas will reach out to them.
