# 2021-11-18 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2021-11-18-transcript.md`](2021-11-18-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [Change Request: provide option to allow parsing specific ES3 reserved words](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15327)

**TSC Summary:** In v8.0, we changed the behavior of `ecmaVersion: 3` to forbid reserved words. IE 6 actually allows some (or all) reserved words to be used. This request is to provide a looser ES3 variant for such purposes.

**TSC Question:** How do we want to address this?

* Prior to ESLint v8, Acorn's default behavior (and therefore Espree's) was to allow reserved words in ES3. Espree v9, part of ESLint v8, [began setting `allowReserved: false`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15017) to be more strict according to the spec.
* The `allowReserved` option is all-or-nothing.
* @mdjermanovic and @nzakas agree reverting that change now would be a breaking change.
* @btmills and @nzakas see value in an IE6 mode.
* @nzakas doesn't want to add an `allowReserved` option, but @mdjermanovic suggests limiting it to ES3 only, and @btmills sees no less bad option.
* Forbidding an option has precedent because we throw an error if `sourceType: "module"` is used with `ecmaVersion: 5`.
* @nzakas suggests implementing the constraint in Espree. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution:** Add an `allowReserved` option in Espree that is valid only for `ecmaVersion: 3`.

### [eslint-community GitHub Organization](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/299#issuecomment-971795809)

> @nzakas: Agenda Item: I'd like to discuss setting up an eslint-community organization on GitHub to provide a place for high-value ESLint ecosystem projects to live. With `eslint-plugin-security` going dark, this seems to highlight the need to have a place where important packages can exist such that if they ever go dark, they can be easily revived. The idea is to make this organization a place where project owners can apply to be part of. When they join, they agree to some basic standards (like 2FA, having a code of conduct, etc.) but otherwise run their projects as they would like. (Obviously details need to be more fleshed out, but let's discuss if we want to head in this direction.)

* webpack-community and nuxt-community are precedent.
* @nzakas volunteers to write a proposal as an RFC. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution:** @nzakas will write an RFC for how the eslint-community organization will work.

### [PR review delays](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/299#issuecomment-972421782)

> @nzakas: Agenda item: I’ve had several PRs waiting for reviews in the past 7 days and they’ve received zero comments. What can we do to get each other’s PRs more attention? It’s hard to make progress when the feedback loop is this long. It also seems like folks aren’t checking Discord that often so my asks for reviews in there don’t seem to have any effect.

* @mdjermanovic has been focused on new syntax for the next release.
* @btmills has had less time lately and has been focusing on Feedback Needed issues in smaller chunks.
* @nzakas suggests prioritizing team PRs if we have at least 30min.
* @mdjermanovic mentions we had agreed to 1 day/week to review team PRs.
* @nzakas asks if pinging on Discord has been helpful. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas requests at least responding in Discord even if we don't have time right away. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas requests everyone give the team a heads up in Discord if anyone will be taking time off for the holidays.

### Website redesign update

* Sara submitted her first pull request, so we should have something live to look at next week.
* @nzakas will set up new.eslint.org so it's easy to look at and share.
* Blog post images should be completed early in December.
* @nzakas plans to wait until both the marketing and docs sites are complete before switching over.
* We'll need to go back and add categories to old blog posts and clean up tags.

### Flat config update

* @nzakas has flat config working in `Linter` and will move on to the `ESLint` class once `sourceType: "commonjs"` changes are merged into Espree and `eslint-scope`.
* In the meantime, we'll need to make sure all changes to `Linter` are tested against both eslintrc and flat config.

### [Scheduled release for November 19th, 2021](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15278)

* @btmills volunteered for the release.
* There are [8 open rule change PRs](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+author%3Amdjermanovic+label%3A%22new+syntax%22+review%3Arequired) for new syntax.
* If [feat: support class static blocks](https://github.com/eslint/espree/pull/518) and [feat: support for private-in syntax](https://github.com/eslint/espree/pull/521) are merged, we can release Espree. Ideally include [feat: Add sourceType:commonjs support](https://github.com/eslint/espree/pull/520) too.

**Resolution:** @btmills will do the release.
