# 2021-06-03 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2021-06-03-transcript.md`](2021-06-03-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes and updated issues with resolutions.

## Topics

### [v8.0.0 status](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/projects/8)

#### [Breaking: Ajv to v8.5.0, added ajv-draft-04 (fixes #13888)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/13911)

* @mdjermanovic feels this would be a breaking change so should be added to the v8.0.0 project. Some of the schema validations are more strict and cannot be turned off, even for end users who have no control over plugin schemas. As a workaround, we could add a `try`/`catch`.
* @nzakas and @btmills are in favor of catching previously-unreported issues in schemas that could cause them to behave incorrectly.
* @nzakas wants to be careful not to break the ecosystem. The changes would primarily be 1) adding `type: "object"` or `type: "array"` where they didn't exist previously and 2) removing `additionalItems: false`.
* @nzakas feels these changes are reasonable and is in favor of adding to v8.0.0. We should check the first prerelease against some popular plugins to confirm the changes are small.
* @mdjermanovic confirms that end users should not notice the changes, just plugin authors when using `RuleTester`.
* @btmills and @mdjermanovic are also in favor of upgrading Ajv in v8.0.0.

**Resolution**: We will upgrade Ajv in v8.0.0 and check the first prerelease against some popular plugins.

#### [Breaking: Strict package exports](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/80)

* @nzakas updated the RFC since the last meeting to incorporate the `use-at-your-own-risk` approach, which has reluctant approval. It is moved to Final Commenting.

#### Schedule

* [Breaking: Strict package exports](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/80) is the last change without an open PR. Should the June 18th release be the first v8.0.0 alpha?
* Before an alpha, @nzakas wants to freeze the feature set for v8.0.0, merge all breaking changes, and prepare the "What's coming in v8.0.0?" blog post.
* @nzakas asks if we're ready to freeze the v8.0.0 feature set. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* The features on the v8.0.0 board are the final set. @nzakas will draft the blog post.
* To shorten the release cycle, @nzakas wants to have all breaking PRs approved before merging them all into the first prerelease. :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @btmills.
* If we have all breaking changes merged, we should be able to skip straight to beta.

#### [Update: add class fields (refs eslint/eslint#14343)](https://github.com/eslint/espree/pull/486)

* This Espree PR appears to be ready. The 3 todos from the opening description have all been resolved.
* @nzakas asks for reviews from the team so we can release a beta of Espree sometime next week to start trying it out. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

#### [Breaking: Implement 'ecmaVersion: latest' (fixes #495)](https://github.com/eslint/espree/pull/499)

* @nzakas requests final review on this PR, which is the final breaking change for the next Espree version.
* There's an issue in the [corresponding ESLint PR](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14622#discussion_r641477654) that handles `ecmaVersion` defaults incorrectly in one case with Espree. We can follow up in the PR.

### [Update: separate eslint --init](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/79)

* @nzakas and @btmills have already approved this RFC.
* It has been moved to final commenting.
* @mdjermanovic will review it over the weekend.

### Contributor awards

* @nzakas nominates JackNapis. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @btmills nominates snitin315. :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @nzakas.
* @nzakas nominates stephenwade for work removing lodash. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @mdjermanovic nominates lexholden for [Update: no-restricted-imports custom message for patterns (fixes #11843)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14580). :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.
* @mdjermanovic nominates boutahlilsoufiane for [Fix: no-duplicate-imports allow unmergeable (fixes #12758, fixes #12760)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14238). :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.
* @nzakas suggests $200 for snitin315 and stephenwade and $100 each for the rest. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution**: Award $200 to snitin315 and stephenwade and $100 to JackNapis, lexholden, and boutahlilsoufiane.

### [Scheduled release for June 4th, 2021](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14621)

* @mdjermanovic will do the release.
* `@eslint/eslintrc` should be released first to ship [Chore: update globals to version 13.6](https://github.com/eslint/eslintrc/pull/32).

**Resolution**: @mdjermanovic will release `@eslint/eslintrc` then `eslint`.
