# 2021-09-09 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2021-09-09-transcript.md`](2021-09-09-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [ES3 reserved words](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15017)

* Acorn in ES3 mode allows reserved words as identifiers, which is not allowed by the spec.
* Acorn has an [`allowReserved` option](https://github.com/acornjs/acorn/tree/master/acorn#interface) that is enabled by default.
* @nzakas and @mdjermanovic recommend setting `allowReserved: "never"` by default in a breaking Espree v9.0.0 release and upgrading ESLint's dependency while ESLint v8.0.0 is still in beta. :+1: from @btmills.

**Resolution**: We will make this change for Espree 9 and ESLint 8.

### [Update rules to support ES2022 class fields](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14857)

* Three of the four remaining rules have PRs ready.
* The fourth, `indent`, was updated in the original syntax support PR. @nzakas proposes assuming it was updated correctly. :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @btmills.

**Resolution**: Presume `indent` was updated correctly, and review the three open PRs.

### [support class static blocks (stage-4)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15016)

* Class static blocks are now stage 4. Do we want to delay ESLint v8 to include support?
* @mdjermanovic, @btmills, and @nzakas all prefer not to block v8.0.0. We can release class static blocks support whenever it's ready.

**Resolution**: Don't block ESLint v8.0.0 to include support for class static blocks.

### [Remove warnings when linting ignored files](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15010)

**TSC Summary:** We currently output a linter warning when a file is passed on the command line that is ignored due to an ignore file. Because it's reported as a linter warning, it counts towards the limit set by `--max-warnings`, which can in turn cause the process to exit with code 1. 

**TSC Question:** Should we change this warning in some way? We could just output it to `stderr` so it doesn't count as a linter warning, but then that information will not be available to formatters.

* If we change treatment of ignored files, it would be inconsistent with ignored directories, which cause exit code 1.
* Currently, `--no-error-on-unmatched-pattern` suppresses errors if a file, directory, or pattern doesn't match anything or if a directory or pattern matches only ignored files. Without the option, those cases cause exit code 2, so @nzakas doesn't think expanding to cover ignored files makes sense.
* `eslint.lintText()` includes a [`warnIgnored` option](https://eslint.org/docs/developer-guide/nodejs-api#-eslintlinttextcode-options). We could add a similar option to `eslint.lintfiles()` and a corresponding CLI option.
* @btmills would like to do something to work better with lint-staged but is fine discussing implementation on the issue.
* If we don't want to do a breaking change, @nzakas proposes adjourning discussion of solutions to the issue. :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @btmills.
* Any change would cause fewer warnings/errors/non-0 exit codes so would be non-breaking.

**Resolution**: We'd like to provide a non-breaking solution to this problem and will discuss options on the issue.

### [Add `--max-warning-count` result object to the `data` argument in formatter function](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14881)

**TSC Summary:** This issue proposes passing the maximum warning limit into formatters. Right now, we output max warning problems directly to `stderr`, which means formatters don't have access to this information. 

**TSC Questions:**

1. Do we want to pass information about maximum warnings into formatters?
2. Do we want to change how ESLint outputs this warning (stop outputting, change to a linter error, or other)?

* @btmills and @mdjermanovic both vote "yes" to the first question. @nzakas does not feel strongly so is happy to go along.
* @nzakas notes that stylelint provides both the maximum and actual warning counts. This is more powerful than a "maximum exceeded" boolean.
* @nzakas notes that we can answer "yes" to 1 and "no" to 2, passing the data to formatters without changing output.
* @btmills is fine with that approach because CLI formatters wouldn't need to change anything, and non-CLI formatters have newly-available information. It leaves us the option to stop printing and let CLI formatters handle it later if we get that request. :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @btmills.

**Resolution**: We'll pass the maximum warning account to formatters without changing the default output.

### [Proposal: Split up website](https://github.com/eslint/website/issues/867)

**TSC Summary:** This issue proposes splitting up the website into three sites:

1. The marketing site (homepage, blog, sponsors, about) to be stored in the `website` repo.
2. Documentation site (docs.eslint.org), to be stored in the `eslint` repo.
3. Playground site (play.eslint.org) to be stored in a new `play.eslint.org` repo.

**TSC Question:** Do we want to pursue such a change?

* @mdjermanovic and @btmills both like this direction.
* @nzakas will put together an RFC.
* @nzakas forwarded the proposal for the ESLint website redesign to make sure @btmills and @mdjermanovic saw it. @nzakas hopes to start next week.

**Resolution**: The proposal is accepted, and @nzakas will write an RFC.

### [Scheduled release for September 10th, 2021](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15002)

**Resolution**: @mdjermanovic will release `@eslint/eslintrc`, `espree@9.0.0`, and `eslint@8.0.0-beta.2`.
