# 2021-April-22 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2021-04-22-transcript.md`](2021-04-22-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes and updated issues with resolutions.

## Topics

### [Reevaluate the `meta.docs.suggestion` property](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14312)

**TSC Summary:** This issue outlines that we have documented a `meta.docs.suggestions` property in rules that appears to originally have been created to indicate when a rule has suggestions much like the `meta.fixable` property indicates if a rule is fixable. However, we don't rely on `meta.docs.suggestions` in any way, and do not enforce its usage to provide suggestions from rules. Additionally, all other current `meta.docs.*` properties are all optional, so this one seems out of place. There are several options but the most straightforward seems to be to create a new `meta.suggestions` property that, when set to `true`, enables rules to provide suggestions in the same way `meta.fixable` allows rules to provide fixes. This would be a breaking change but would ensure that both humans and tooling can easily tell when a rule provides suggestions.

**TSC Question:** How do we want to proceed here? And do we want to include this in v8.0.0 (somewhat related to https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13349)?

* @nzakas [previously proposed](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14312#issuecomment-824253440) `suggestable` on the issue thread.
* @btmills also prefers treating this like `fixable`.
* Should we do this in v8.0.0?
  * @mdjermanovic suggests updating `RuleTester` in v8.0.0 and `Linter` in v9.0.0 because plugins will have to migrate to the new property before users can upgrade.
  * On the other hand, it's a one-line change. @nzakas thinks a heads up blog post and at least one beta release will be enough time.
* Do we need an RFC?
  * Ideally we can rely on `fixable` as a precedent, so a paragraph definition should be sufficient.

**Resolution**: A new `meta.suggestions` property must be set when a rule provides suggestions. We will do this in v8.0.0 and include it in a blog post to give notice.

### [Consider switching to Conventional Commits](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14231)

**TSC Summary:** This issue suggests moving to conventional commits for all ESLint projects, which would allow us to adopt more conventional tooling for managing projects.

**TSC Question:** Shall we accept this proposal?

* @nzakas notes this will be a phased transition to not disrupt releases.
* :+1: from @mdjermanovic, @nzakas, and @btmills.

**Resolution**: The issue is accepted.

### [Update: Warn on directives in line comments (refs eslint/rfcs#34)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/12397)

**TSC Summary**: This PR implements the warning originally described in eslint/rfcs#34. This functionality was removed prior to finalizing the RFC. Initially, this was a first step to warn people of directive-like comments that were not currently supported before ultimately supporting them.

**TSC Question**:  Do we want to merge this PR or just go straight to implementing eslint/rfcs#34?

* @nzakas is against merging this PR since it's only an intermediate step to where the RFC ended up.
* @mdjermanovic and @btmills agree.

**Resolution**: We'll close the PR without merging.

### [Scheduled release for April 23rd, 2021](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14319)

**Resolution**: @mdjermanovic will do the release.
