# 2021-January-28 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2021-01-28-transcript.md`](2021-01-28-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes and updated issues with resolutions.

## Topics

### [Docs: Triage process](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14014)

**TSC Summary:** This documents a new issue triage process.

**TSC Question:** Shall we adopt this process and start using it going forward?

* :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @btmills.
* @nzakas opened https://github.com/eslint/eslint-github-bot/issues/136 to track automation updates.

**Resolution**: We'll start using the new triage process. @nzakas will make the project public and email the team with an overview.

### [Update: no-unused-expression flags unused JSX](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14012)

**TSC Summary:** `no-unused-expressions` currently doesn't report JSX expressions. This might be an unintentional regression introduced in v7.5.0, when we switched from maintaining a list of nodes that shouldn't be reported to maintaining a list of nodes that should be reported. On the other hand, the actual behavior (not reporting JSX) is in line with our policy of not assuming any semantics for JSX, per which we can't know whether or not JSX is side-effect free.

This PR aims to add an option for JSX expressions to the `no-unused-expressions` rule. Default value retains the current v7.18.0 behavior (not reporting JSX). When set, it restores pre-v7.5.0 behavior (reporting JSX).

**TSC Question:** shall we accept this PR?

* :+1: from @mdjermanovic, @btmills, and @nzakas.

**Resolution**: The new option is accepted.

### [Update: Use the official '.yaml' file extensions for 'eslint --init'](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14010)

**TSC Summary:** This PR aims to change filename extensions of YAML config files that `eslint --init` creates. The new extension would be `.yaml`, as recommended in [yaml.org FAQ](https://yaml.org/faq.html):

> Is there an official extension for YAML files?

> Please use ".yaml" when possible.

On the other hand, `.yml` seems to be the most commonly used, the change might be surprising for users, and the new config system will anyway not support YAML.

**TSC Question:** shall we accept this change?

* Since the new config won't use YAML at all and `--init` will require corresponding updates, @btmills suggests not updating the config init system until the new config system is ready. :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @nzakas.

**Resolution**: We will leave `.yml` as the default YAML file extension.

### [Update: check ternary `:` even if `?` was reported in space-infix-ops](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/13963)

**TSC Summary:** this PR fixes a slight bug in space-infix-ops. Per our policy, this rule is frozen so we are no longer making changes to it.

**TSC Question:** Should we close this PR without merging?

* Per our [rule policy](https://eslint.org/blog/2020/05/changes-to-rules-policies), stylistic rules are "frozen".
* @mdjermanovic interpreted "frozen" to mean no enhancements, but they're not deprecated, so we'll still fix bugs and handle new syntax as necessary.
* @nzakas interpreted "frozen" to mean no changes for anything.
* @btmills interpreted the next sentence, "We won't be adding any more options to stylistic rules," to mean no more options but leave bug fixes ambiguous.
* While nobody's enthusiastic about maintaining stylistic rules, we couldn't remove or deprecate them because there's no similarly-configurable alternative to recommend.
* To @mdjermanovic, not fixing bugs or handling new syntax is effectively deprecation.
* There are three cases: 1) bug fixes (including this PR), 2) new syntax, and 3) new options.
* So far, we haven't needed to do 3 in order to achieve 1 or 2, but it may be necessary.
* @mdjermanovic demonstrates admirable reading ability by discovering the enormous "What about bugs?" heading in the policy, which says we'll still fix bugs in stylistic rules.
* Per our existing policy, we won't add enhancement options, but we will fix bugs. What about handling new syntax?
* @btmills and @nzakas feel we need to do the minimum handle new syntax in stylistic rules to keep them consistent with the rest of ESLint. :+1: from @mdjermanovic.
* @btmills volunteers do document the policy in the README and link to it from the original blog post.

**Resolution**: 1) We'll fix bugs in stylistic rules, and 2) we'll do the minimum necessary to support new ES features in stylistic rules, but 3) we will not add new options to stylistic rules. @btmills will document this updated policy.

### [New: Provide ESM package for Espree](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/72)

**TSC Summary:** this RFC proposes switching Espree to be written in ESM and published as a dual-use package with both ESM and CommonJS.

**TSC Question:** shall we accept this RFC?

#### Author in ESM or CJS with ESM wrapper?

* @nzakas wants to migrate everything to ESM, which requires a build step.
* @btmills initially prefers the [wrapper approach](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#packages_approach_1_use_an_es_module_wrapper).
* To @nzkas, there's little value in an ESM wrapper around CJS since tools can already translate automatically.
* Having both CJS and ESM builds risks duplicating singletons if both builds get loaded. `espree` should be okay, but that may be a problem for `eslint` in the future since it has more state.

#### Bundle ESM into `dist`?

* @nzakas envisions bundling into `dist/espree.cjs` and `dist/espree.mjs` to improve load performance with less file I/O.
* @nzakas hopes to only ship `dist` and remove `lib` from the published package.
* Exporting build output adds an extra step for `npm link` or running tests.
* If local tests run against the source in `lib`, we'll want to run tests against the build output before publishing.
* The RFC should mention testing the output.

#### Default export?

* Do we need both `export function parse` and `export default { parse }`?
* `import { parse } from 'espree';` is the more natural form for this sort of API.
* For compatibility, we could include the default export to support `import espree from 'espree'; espree.parse(...);`.
* Nobody has strong feelings about the default export, so we'll include just named exports initially and add the default export if there are compatibility issues.

**Resolution**: We'll author in ESM, bundle both CJS and ESM into `dist/espree.{c,m}js`, update the RFC to mention testing build output before publishing, and have just named exports initially. @btmills will summarize this on the RFC.

### Contributor Pool

* brodybits had multiple PRs.
* ljharb has been active on issues.
* luxaritas and jacknapis have assisted in the #help chat.
* snitin315 has reviewed PRs and opened one.

**Resolution**: Award $100 each to brodybits, ljharb, luxaritas, jacknapis, and snitin315.

### [Scheduled release for January 29th, 2021](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14015)

* https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14036 needs to be merged before the release.
* Once the site is live, play around with the configuration docs to make sure redirects are working correctly.

**Resolution**: @btmills will do the release.
