# 2021-07-29 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2021-07-29-transcript.md`](2021-07-29-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### [v8.0.0 status](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/projects/8)

#### [Breaking: upgrade espree and support new class features (fixes #14343)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/14591)

* @nzakas has been finishing this up.
* Code path analysis still needs to be updated, and @nzakas proposes doing that in a follow-up PR and marking this as ready for merge. :+1: from @btmills.
* The ID-specific rules have already been updated, and we can do the rest independently. @btmills will go through the other rules and add them to a checklist in a tracking issue.

#### Migration guide

* @btmills will create an issue for writing the "Migrating to v8.0.0" guide.

#### [--report-unused-disable-directives should be autofixable](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11815)

* This hasn't been updated in over a week, so @nzakas left a comment.
* If we need to finish it ourselves, it should be close.

#### [Add Support for Top-level await](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14632)

* This is covered by the espree upgrade in #14343 so doesn't need an independent PR.
* Rules should already handle top-level await after being updated to work with `@babel/eslint-parser`.
* This is ready for merge as part of #14343, and @nzakas will add "Fixes" to that commit message to reference this issue as well.

### [Scheduled release for July 30th, 2021](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14812)

* @nzakas proposes one final regular release then starting to merge v8.0.0 PRs on Monday assuming no patch release. :+1: from @btmills.

**Resolution**: @btmills will do a regular release.

### Discord #team channel

> @nzakas: let's be sure to use the #team channel for anything that isn't sensitive. I'd like to be as transparent as possible with the whole team about how the project is run. Sensitive things would be issues related to money/sponsors, nominating people for various positions, etc.
