# 2021-12-02 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2021-12-02-transcript.md`](2021-12-02-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes.

## Topics

### PR Review Delays

> @nzakas: One thing I'd like to discuss: can we get PRs merged faster? While it's nice that we have a two week cycle with releases to make sure things are merged, I'm noticing that not everything that is ready ends up getting merged or else other things end up dragging on for months.
> For things like docs, chores, bug fixes, we've always said that one approval was enough to merge, but I'm seeing those lingering open
> I try to merge things that are ready when I'm reviewing PRs, and I think it's beneficial to get things merged ahead of releases to account for any potential problems, rather than waiting until the day of a release.

* 13 of 20 open PRs have been open at least 30 days.
* Merging PRs when they're ready instead of waiting for release day saves time on release day.
* @nzakas suggests merging when ready, or if approved without merging, explicitly stating what else it's waiting for.
* For non-trivial PRs, we [wait 2-3 days](https://eslint.org/docs/maintainer-guide/pullrequests#when-to-merge-a-pull-request) after the last change before merging.

> Team members may merge a pull request immediately if it:
>
> - Makes a small documentation change
> - Is a chore
> - Fixes a block of other work on the repository (build-related, test-related, dependency-related, etc.)
> - Is an important fix to get into a patch release

**Resolution**: @nzakas: If a PR has one approval and no further updates after 2 days, we can either merge it as-is or provide our own review and then decide whether to merge. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

### 2022 Roadmap

> @nzakas: I'd like us to try to put together a roadmap for 2022. In the past we've done this by creating a locked issue and asking everyone on the team to add their ideas for big things they'd like to accomplish on ESLint during the year. I'd like to start that process now so we can publish something after the new year. Sound good?

**Resolution**: @nzakas will open an issue to discuss the roadmap.

### Website Redesign Update

> @nzakas:
> * The donate and sponsors pages are mostly done, we are just working through a few design tweaks.
> * The blog will be next, and we'll likely need a big effort to update all of the frontmatter in our blog posts to work correctly on the new site.
> * And then the homepage will be last as it incorporates components from the other pages.

### Contributor Pool

* @nzakas suggests only nominating people when PRs are merged. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @nzakas nominates JackNapis and Kepeniukas for #help. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.
* @mdjermanovic nominates ota-meshi for [feat: Normalize ecmaVersion to eslint-scope when using custom parser](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15268), [feat: support for private-in syntax (fixes #14811)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15060), and [feat: support for private-in syntax](https://github.com/eslint/espree/pull/521). :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.
* @mdjermanovic nominates fengzilong for [feat: support async formatter](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/15243). :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.
* @mdjermanovic nominates ljharb for [feat: add `allowReserved` for ES3](https://github.com/eslint/espree/pull/522). :+1: from @btmills and @nzakas.
* @btmills nominates MichaelDeBoey for four Markdown plugin PRs. :+1: from @mdjermanovic and @nzakas.
* @nzakas proposes $500 for ota-meshi and $100 for everyone else. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution**: @nzakas will reach out and award $500 to ota-meshi and $100 to each of JackNapis, Kepeniukas, fengzilong, ljharb, and MichaelDeBoey.

### [Scheduled release for December 3rd, 2021](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/15342)

* @mdjermanovic volunteers for the release.
* Espree has changes waiting for release too.

**Resolution**: @mdjermanovic will release Espree and ESLint.
