# 2021-April-08 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

[`2021-04-08-transcript.md`](2021-04-08-transcript.md)

## Attending

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Milos Djermanovic (@mdjermanovic) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC

@nzakas moderated, and @btmills took notes and updated issues with resolutions.

## Topics

### [--report-unused-disable-directives should be autofixable](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11815)

**TSC Summary:** This proposal proposes to make the `--report-unused-disable-directives`  warnings fixable(runing `eslint ---fix`).

**TSC Question:** Shall we accept this proposal? Is a RFC required?

* @mdjermanovic, @nzakas, and @btmills all support the idea "there should be a way to autofix unused disable directives."
* Do we need an RFC? There are many ways this feature could be implemented, so yes.
* Options include a new option or unique fix type. We're not sure tacking on to `--fix` is the right approach.

**Resolution:** We want a way to autofix unused disable directives and want an RFC to discuss how that should work.

### [Breaking: provide ESM export (refs eslint/rfcs#72)](https://github.com/eslint/espree/pull/469)

* @nzakas: Is this ready?
* @mdjermanovic and @btmills will review over the weekend.
* @mdjermanovic asks if we should run all tests on the `.cjs` bundle. @nzakas and @btmills would rather not run redundant tests unless we discover inconsistencies. :+1: from @mdjermanovic.
* The release process currently runs tests then bumps the version. It [will need to change](https://github.com/eslint/espree/pull/469#discussion_r586366016) to bumping the version, bundling, then running tests.
    * @nzakas suggests using a `package.json` `pretest` script.
    * Instead of doing that as part of this PR, @mdjermanovic will open an issue to do it later.
* @mdjermanovic will also open an issue to update the API docs with the new ESM API.

**Resolution:** We'll review the PR this weekend. We won't run `.cjs` tests yet and will add them later if necessary. @mdermanovic will open issues to ensure the Espree release process works and update API docs.

### [v8.0.0](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/projects/8)

* We've already added everything we want to discuss for v8.0.0 so will not consider anything else that's not on the board.
* For each item in "Needs Discussion", are we in favor of including, in favor pending implementation discussion, or not in favor?

#### [Validate options passed to CLIEngine API](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10272)

* @mdjermanovic, @btmills, and @nzakas are not in favor because `CLIEngine` is now deprecated, and the new `ESLint` API has some validations.
* @nzakas suggests closing this issue. :+1: from @btmills and @mdjermanovic.

**Resolution:** Close this issue.

#### [Stricter `no-undef` default](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10203)

* @mdjermanovic would be in favor but for split opinions on the issue.
* @btmills is not in favor for v8 but would leave open for @mysticatea, who was supporting it.
* @nzakas is not in favor. Since we already bumped this from previous releases, should we close it instead? @mdjermanovic and @btmills in favor of closing.

**Resolution:** Close this issue.

#### [enable no-use-before-define in eslint:recommended](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11903)

* @nzakas is not in favor.
* @btmills is not in favor and suggests closing becuase this was bumped from v7 with no activity since then. :+1: from @nzakas.
* @mdjermanovic is not in favor but would like to have TDZ errors in `eslint:recommended` so votes for closing this issue and discussing TDZ errors in a new issue.

**Resolution:** Close this issue and request a concrete proposal for TDZ errors in a new issue.

#### [breaking: drop node v10/v13 support](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14023)

* @btmills, @mdjermanovic, and @nzakas are all in favor.

**Resolution:** Accepted for v8.

#### [Expose true filename to rules](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11989)

* @nzakas is in favor pending implementation details.
* One of the three proposals, replacing `/` with `#` in virtual filenames, would be a breaking change.
* @mdjermanovic is in favor pending details.
* @btmills is in favor if we go with `#`, otherwise we can defer to a minor release.

**Resolution:** Accepted for v8 if we choose the `#` proposal.

#### [Remove some formatters from the core](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14277)

* @nzakas, @btmills, and @mdjermanovic are in favor.

**Resolution:** Accepted for v8.

#### [Upgrade to Ajv version 7](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13888)

* The issue will be updated to reflect Ajv version 8 when it is released soon.
* @mdjermanovic, @nzakas, and @btmills are in favor.

**Resolution:** Accepted for v8.

#### [@babel/code-frame v7.12.13 breaks codeframe formatter](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14087)

* Since we're removing the `codeframe` formatter in https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14277, this won't apply anymore.

**Resolution:** No longer applies due to removal of `codeframe` formatter.

#### [Breaking: define an `exports` field for our public API](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13654)

* @btmills and @nzakas are in favor.
* Since this will require a time-consuming RFC, @mdjermanovic is in favor provided it does not block the release date.
* @nzakas hopes we can enlist a community member to work on the RFC.

**Resolution:** Accepted for v8 provided the RFC is completed in time.

#### [Update: Warn on directives in line comments (refs eslint/rfcs#34)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/12397)

* The RFC has three approvals from team alumni and is already in final commenting but will need a review from a current team member before merging.
* @nzakas and @mdjermanovic are in favor.
* @mdjermanovic isn't sure the current document matches the discussion. Are we allowing all directives in both types of comments, or just producing warnings?
* As part of the v7 discussion, we [agreed we could do this in a minor release](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/34#issuecomment-586018720), so we don't have to decide today.

**Resolution:** Accepted for v8, and go review the RFC.

#### [Remove ecmascript 6 category for rules](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/13398)

* As stated, this does not remove the `category` field from rules. Should it?
* @mdjermanovic and @btmills are in favor either way.
* @nzakas is in favor, including removing `category`.

**Resolution:** Accepted for v8, including removing the `category` field from core rules.

### [Scheduled release for April 9th, 2021](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/14267)

**Resolution:** @mdjermanovic will do the release.
