# 2019-January-17 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2019/01/17

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Nicholas Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC

## Topics

### [Better support for multiple processors](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11035)

The RFC for this change has been approved: https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/tree/master/designs/2018-processors-improvements

As this was the first merged RFC, I'd like to make doubly sure that the TSC accepts this by adding to the TSC agenda for this week.

**TSC Summary:** This proposal has a completed RFC explaining how to implement multiple processors for ESLint input files. There is no breaking change in this proposal. I'd like to review this because there was some confusion over the RFC process as to the timing of the merge (process is being discussed on a different issues now) and just want to ensure everyone is on board with this change.

**TSC Question:** Shall we accept this enhancement?

:+1: from @btmills, @kaicataldo, @platinumazure, @ilyavolodin, @not-an-aardvark

**Resolution**: We will accept the issue and implement [the RFC](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/tree/master/designs/2018-processors-improvements).

### Handoff of typescript-eslint-parser to @JamesHenry

This past week we had a discussion in Gitter about handing of `typescript-eslint-parser` to James Henry. I'd like to discuss with the TSC to make sure we're all on board and formalize the process, which would be:

1. Stop accepting changes to `typescript-eslint-parser`.
1. Update the README to explain it has been deprecated and point to James' version.
1. Mark the repo as archived.
1. Mark the package as deprecated on npm and point to James' version.
1. Write a blog post explaining the change.

A few points of clarification:

* James is starting a fork of the parser, so it will have a different name and a different npm scope. This should minimize any intellectual property and security concerns from JSF as we aren't handing off the GitHub repo and npm publishing rights.
* James has invited ESLint team members to help work on his new typescript-eslint project, and anyone is free to help that would like to, however the ESLint team will not be operating as maintainers of the new project.

:+1: from @platinumazure, @kaicataldo, @not-an-aardvark, @ilyavolodin, @btmills

**Resolution**: We will hand off `typescript-eslint-parser` to @JamesHenry. @nzakas will write up a blog post and share it around for feedback so we can hopefully post it soon.

### [Scheduled release for January 18th, 2019](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11245)

**Resolution**: @not-an-aardvark and @kaicataldo will do the release.
