# 2019-February-14 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2019/02/14

## Attending

* Nicholas Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC

Additionally, the following individuals are not in attendance but support consensus:

* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC

## Topics

### JSF Stage

* As part of the process of merging with the Linux Foundation, the JS Foundation is asking member projects to decide which of the four stages (emeritus, at large, growth, or impact) best fits their project.
* @nzakas recommends "at large", as that gives us the most flexibility without adding more responsibilities (“impact”, for example, requires active participation at the Foundation level, and I’m not sure any of us are interested in that — I’m guessing only Node.js would be at this level).
* :+1: to "at large" from @btmills, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea
* @ilyavolodin suggests "impact" could be a better fit given his existing participation on the JS Foundation TSC, but is fine with "at large".

**Resolution**: We will be a JSF "at large" project. @nzakas will coordinate with the JSF.

### [New "Reviewer" title](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/118#issuecomment-463235118)

* @nzakas: I'd like to propose a new level in our governance structure: reviewers. Reviewers would be the next step up from committers but one below TSC. The idea is to create a role for people who have contributed enough to be on the TSC but who don't want to be involved with the administration of the project on an ongoing basis. As an example, right now if someone wants to leave the TSC, their only options are to become a committer (lose the ability to merge enhancements/features in GitHub) or become an alumnus (lose all access). That seems like a pretty big jump down in either case for someone who can still help triaging and managing pull requests. The requirements would be the same as for TSC.
* Reviewers would be able to approve and merge pull requests similar to TSC members, but they wouldn't attend meetings, be project admins, or have access to releases, Twitter, Open Collective, etc.
* @not-an-aardvark questions whether there's demand for this new title given that today there'd be little practical difference between Reviewers and Committers given the number of TSC members relative to Committers. This could add administrative overhead without tangible benefit. @ilyavolodin and @btmills have similar concerns, but none object to carrying forward.
* A level between Committer and TSC could make it easier for someone who wants to contribute but doesn't want all the responsibility.
* :+1: from @platinumazure, @btmills, @ilyavolodin, @not-an-aardvark

**Resolution**: Create a new Reviewer level with details TBD.

### [Limiting the size of the TSC](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/118#issuecomment-463235118)

* @nzakas: Should we limit the size of the TSC? Last year it looked like the size was 9 for most of the year, and that seemed a bit large, making it harder to do things like reach quorum at meetings and make decisions on features. I'd like to propose that we limit the TSC to either 5 or 7 people going forward, but we don't enforce that limit until we actually hit the limit as TSC members resign. We just wouldn't add any more TSC members until we got back below the limit. (This is also why having a reviewers role would help, as it still allows others to gain more influence with the project when the TSC is full.)
* @platinumazure is neutral. @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, and @ilyavolodin are wondering if the new "supports consensus" status for those temporarily on leave may have alleviated the problem of reaching quorum.
* @nzakas clarifies that this is designed to address more than just difficulty reaching quorum. In general, larger groups make for more difficult decisions.
* This seems related to the working groups proposal, so discussion pivots to that.
* After returning to this topic, @nzakas believes people are against limiting the size of the TSC at this time.
* :not-an-aardvark, @ilyavolodin, and @btmills agree.

**Resolution**: We will not limit the size of the TSC at this point.

### [Working Groups](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/118#issuecomment-463235118)

* @nzakas: I'd like to propose that we start forming working groups to fulfill various administrative tasks on the project. The idea here is to assign 2-3 people to be responsible for various areas of the project, with their recommendations being approved by the TSC on how to go forward. This has already worked fairly well for the website redesign, and I'm wondering if we could do the same in a few other areas (off the top of my head):

    * Finance (who has access to Open Collective?)
    * Security (who is monitoring HackerOne?)
    * Ops (who has admin access to VMs?)
    * Community (who is monitoring the Twitter account, chatroom, etc.?)

* This is effectively how the team has been operating from the start, with individuals or small groups informally adopting areas they care about.
* @ilyavolodin, @not-an-aardvark, and @btmills are reluctant to add additional rules.
* @nzakas doesn't necessarily want additional rules but does want to document who's working on what.
* Due to time constraints, @nzakas proposes writing a more detailed proposal for discussion later.
* :+1: to a more detailed proposal from @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @mysticatea, @ilyavolodin

**Resolution**: @nzakas will put together a more detailed proposal.

### [ESLint v6 Roadmap Discussion](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/118#issuecomment-460813808)

* @platinumazure: I'd like to discuss what we are planning as far as an eventual major release (ESLint 6.0). We have a few places where we can identify breaking changes that are either already accepted, or that could be added to the roadmap easily. I would like us to take stock of where we're at with these major changes and decide what we want to include in 6.0, vs including in a later major release.

    * What do we want to incorporate into ESLint v6.0.0?
    * Can we augment the v6.0.0 roadmap accordingly, and begin to work toward a major release?

* We don't want to discuss specific features or timing of the release in this meeting.
* @not-an-aardvark suggests going over the v6 project board in two weeks.
* :+1: from @platinumazure, @nzakas, @ilyavolodin, @btmills

**Resolution**: Add anything we want to see in v6 to the project board, and we'll discuss it in two weeks.

### [Scheduled release for February 15th, 2019](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11353)

**Resolution**: @not-an-aardvark, @ilyavolodin, and @btmills to coordinate a release outside the meeting.
