# 2019-August-29 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2019/08/29

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC

Additionally, the following individuals are not in attendance but support consensus:

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC

## Topics

### [Add CodeTriage badge to eslint/eslint](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/11807)

* This has come up in the last two meetings and was postponed with a request for more information.
* @btmills suggests that we should close it because nobody seems excited enough to dig in more. :+1: from @ilyavolodin, @platinumazure, @mysticatea.

**Resolution**: Close the pull request.

### [[Trial] add static type validation to our codebase](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/12082)

#### TSC Summary

This PR adds a new static analysis, to check the types of JSDoc, to the source code of core rules. The static analysis will find the overlooks to handle AST properly, then fail tests.

**Pros:**

- Contributors can notice the edge cases of AST handling. (for example, 3/8 core rules in alphabet order have overlooked the literal property names.)
- Reviewers can focus on what the rule does rather than whether the rule handles AST properly or not.
- Popular editors can provide proper input completion and popup documents when people implement rules.

**Cons:**

- Contributors need knowledge about JSDoc notations and TypeScript type notations.
- The static analysis has false positive due to the limitation of the static type checking. For example, the static analysis says `sourceCode.getTokenAfter(token)` can return `null` even if never returns `null` in the situation.
- We need much work to add the static analysis to every core rule.

#### TSC Question

Should we go to this direction?

* How much of a benefit is this relative to the cost of augmenting the codebase with type annotations?
* The `require-jsdoc` and `valid-jsdoc` rules give us a head start, but some would have to be modified to be correct.
* Using JSDoc type annotations would help if we later decided to move the codebase to TypeScript.
* The team generally agrees that adding types would likely catch bugs in a decent portion of rules.
* We've dramatically reduced the incidence of crashing bugs over the last few years. @ilyavolodin believes the lack of bug reports over our large user base means the remaining bugs are likely to be edge cases.
* @mysticatea feels types will help as new JS versions gain new syntax.
* @platinumazure would like to see the results of adding type checking to more rules before making a decision, provided @mysticatea is willing and nobody feels likely to oppose it at this point. :+1: from @ilyavolodin, @btmills, @mysticatea

**Resolution**: @mysticatea will do more research.

### [Chore: use GitHub Actions](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/12144)

#### TSC Summary

This PR switches our CI to GitHub Actions from Azure Pipelines.

**Pros:**

- We don't need to depend on external services for CI.
- I guess that we can aggregate CI and other workflows (commit message validator, release cycle monitor, "needs info" label handler, and auto-closer of issues) into GitHub Actions. If it was realized, probably we can reduce the maintenance cost of infrastructure.

**Cons:**

- It's still beta.
- It doesn't provide the detail of tests. (E.g., Azure Pipelines provide the [Tests Tab](https://dev.azure.com/eslint/eslint/_build/results?buildId=341&view=ms.vss-test-web.build-test-results-tab))
- It doesn't provide the detail of code coverage. (E.g., Azure Pipelines provide the [Code Coverage Tab](https://dev.azure.com/eslint/eslint/_build/results?buildId=341&view=codecoverage-tab))

#### TSC Question

Should we switch CI?

* @ilyavolodin, @platinumazure, and @btmills feel GitHub Actions is early and not quite ready yet.
* @btmills suggests merging this without removing our existing CI to gain experience with Actions without completely depending on them. :+1: from @ilyavolodin and @mysticatea. :+1: from @kaicataldo on the pull request outside the meeting. @platinumazure supports consensus.

**Resolution**: Add GitHub actions without replacing the existing infrastructure.

### [Scheduled release for August 30th, 2019](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/12159)

**Resolution**: @ilyavolodin and @platinumazure will do the release.
