# 2019-March-28 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2019/03/28

## Attending

* Nicholas Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC

Additionally, the following individuals are not in attendance but support consensus:

* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC

## Topics

### [Decide which Node versions ESLint 6 should support](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11456)

**TSC Summary**: This issue proposes setting our Node version support in ESLint 6 to `^8.10.0 || ^10.13.0 || >=11.10.1`.

**TSC Question**: Should we accept this proposal?

* :+1: from @btmills, @nzakas, @not-an-aardvark, @platinumazure, @ilyavolodin, @mysticatea

**Resolution**: Accept this proposal for the supported Node.js version for ESLint 6.

### [Begin ESLint 6 pre-release process](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/124#issuecomment-477534383)

**TSC Summary:**

> https://github.com/eslint/eslint/projects/5

We have multiple PRs for ESLint 6 that are "ready to merge" or "Implemented, pending review".

**TSC Question:** When do we start to merge the breaking change PRs and release pre-release versions of ESLint 6?

* On the project board, only two issues remain to be implemented. Everything else has an implementation that is either ready to merge or pending review.
* @platinumazure and @not-an-aardvark mention the potential for additional RFCs to make it into v6. Some have been merged but not yet implemented. [eslint/rfcs#18](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/18) is semver-minor, so it wouldn't be a release-blocker. @nzakas points out that the v6 feature list was "locked down" in the previous meeting.
* @btmills and @not-an-aardvark propose beginning merging breaking changes after this weekend's release process is completed on Monday and doing the first alpha release on April 12th.
* :+1: from @btmills, @not-an-aardvark, @ilyavolodin, @platinumazure, @mysticatea. No objections.
* @platinumazure wants to get breaking changes merged faster than the v5 alphas. @mysticatea concurs because several PRs will have merge conflicts that have to be resolved. @not-an-aardvark points out that a locked-down feature set will help, whereas we continued to merge breaking changes throughout the v5 alphas.

**Resolution**: Start merging breaking changes on April 1st, provided there are no regressions with this weekend's release that need more time to solve, and do the first v6 alpha release on April 12th.

### [Scheduled release for March 29th, 2019](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11526)

**Resolution**: @ilyavolodin and @platinumazure will do the release.

### [eslint-recommended changes in eslint v6.0.0](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10768)

This was not discussed in the meeting, but team members were asked to respond to the thread after the meeting.
