# 2019-December-19 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2019/12/19

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC

Additionally, the following individuals are not in attendance but support consensus:

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC

@kaicataldo moderated, @btmills took notes, and @platinumazure updated issues with decisions.

## Topics

### [Handling warnings/errors for configuration and other non-rule issues](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/12650)

#### TSC Summary

This is a follow-up from [a TSC discussion on 2019/12/05 about whether configuration-related warnings could ever be added in a semver-minor release](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/blob/master/notes/2019/2019-12-05.md#can-adding-warnings-without-adding-errors-ever-be-semver-minor).

I would like to allow us more flexibility on adding warnings for configuration or UX issues as semver-minor changes. Long-term, we need to be able to do this without having any impact on the exit code for the ESLint process.

More background can be found in the initial issue post. Also, this is currently blocking [eslint/rfcs#34](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/34).

Long-term, we should probably fix this by creating a new location in the lint result object for lint run-level issues (e.g., configuration issues). Short-term, I would like to ask the TSC to consider allowing exceptions to the semver rules, on a case-by-case basis, for specific proposals in which the value of adding warnings is high enough to potentially justify breaking the users' build on semver-minor releases (especially if ESLint is already currently not working for the use case in question and we want to improve the UX and help users fix their issue). The process would be to nominate the issue on the TSC Agenda and ask the TSC to decide if the proposal should be accepted while adding warnings on a semver-minor release.

This process change would be captured in the Maintainer Guide.

#### TSC Question

Should we adopt a policy to allow, on a case-by-case basis, TSC discussion on issues that add warnings and whether they could be allowed in a semver-minor release?

* @platinumazure notes that RFC34 may be more trouble than it's worth, and a new CLI option or separate tool could be a better approach.
* In a [comment on the issue](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/12650#issuecomment-562924830), @mysticatea suggested a definition where we could add warnings for existing incorrect behavior due to e.g. incorrect configuration in semver-minor releases, but we would need to wait for a semver-major release to add warnings for currently-correct behavior that has been e.g. deprecated.
* :+1: from @btmills, @kaicataldo, @mysticatea, @platinumazure
* @platinumazure proposes the following wording for our semver policy: "In addition, the ESLint TSC may reserve the right to add warnings in a minor release when the warnings are meant to improve the user experience for an existing incorrect behavior in ESLint (for example, due to an incorrect configuration by the user).

**Resolution**: We will accept the proposal using the above-described criteria.

### [Scheduled release for December 201th, 2019](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/12647)

**Resolution**: @kaicataldo and @btmills will do the release.

### [Update: no-path-concat rule checks template literals (fixes #12323)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/12367)

* This was originally part of PR backlog review, so it does not have a TSC Summary or Question.
* @platinumazure believes the [latest proposal](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/12367#issuecomment-539202125) expands beyond a bugfix to become a rule enhancement/redesign. It would increase warnings in some cases, making it a breaking change.
* @kaicataldo argues this rule, being Node-specific, doesn't belong in Core at all, and would be interested in doing to our Node rules what we did with JSDoc by moving them into a plugin, probably `eslint-plugin-node`.
* @mysticatea would welcome adding all Node.js-specific core rules to `eslint-plugin-node`.
* @kaicataldo points out that for this PR, moving it into `eslint-plugin-node` would open up the possibility of a rewrite/breaking changes.
* @mysticatea proposes opening an issue or RFC proposing moving all Node.js-specific core rules to `eslint-plugin-node` and then closing this PR pointing to the proposal.
* :+1: from @platinumazure, @kaicataldo, @btmills.

**Resolution**: @kaicataldo will open a proposal to move all Node.js-specific core rules to `eslint-plugin-node`.
