# 2019-January-03 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2019/01/03

## Attending

* Nicholas Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC

## Topics

### [New: display beginner-friendly message if Node version is below(fixes #10549)](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/10570)

**TSC Summary:** This pull request adds a check for the correct version of Node.js to use with ESLint. It outputs a simple message when ESLint is run if the Node.js version is incorrect. It does this by adding a new `eslint-cli.js` file that runs before the current `bin/eslint.js` file (in case the latter needs newer syntax that an older version of Node.js doesn't support).

**TSC Question:** Shall we merge this pull request?

* Checking runtime version compatibility is ostensibly a package manager's job, but warnings may be absent or insufficiently prominent.
* Nobody is opposed to the idea in principle, but some question the necessity of adding the message right now: we haven't received any new issues since we dropped support for Node.js v4.
* @nzakas proposes that we close the pull request without merging. :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @kaicataldo.

**Resolution**: We will close the pull request without merging.

### [Docs: Reorder Node.js API sections](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/11070)

**TSC Summary**: I (platinumazure) created this pull request because I wanted to ensure that users who visit the Node.js APIs documentation page could access the content they are most likely to need first. Along those lines, I had decided SourceCode documentation should move down (as it is also covered in Working with Rules), and CLIEngine documentation should move above Linter and SourceCode.

Part of the motivation for this is seeing people ask Gitter chat, more than once, how to use `Linter.verify` to integrate ESLint into their CLI application, only for them to learn that they should use `CLIEngine.executeOnFiles` or `CLIEngine.executeOnText` due to needing to resolve configurations or do other filesystem operations. I wanted to change the documentation ordering to try to suggest that CLIEngine is more often what people really want to use.

**TSC Question**:

1. What criteria should we use when ordering our Node.js API documentation?
2. Do we need to make any changes to the current listing?

* The existing ordering presents a bottom-up walkthrough of ESLint's API surface.
* The proposed ordering would put most-likely-to-be-applicable sections first.
* Each approach has advantages depending on the reader's circumstances and goals.
* @kaicataldo proposes moving further discussion around documentation goals back to the PR. :+1: from @nzakas, @platinumazure, @btmills, @not-an-aardvark

**Resolution**: Continue discussion on the PR.

### [Update --init behavior](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11105)

**TSC Summary:** This proposal seeks to update the `--init` questions to eliminate asking for `ecmaVersion` (assume latest, which is 2018 now), ask if you're using Vue/React, and ask if you want ESLint to enforce styles. An optional piece of this is to remove autoconfig as an option, but that is not a blocker to the rest of this proposal.

**TSC Question:** Shall we accept this proposal? Should autoconfig be removed as part of it or no?

* If we remove autoconfig, should equivalent functionality exist in a community-supported utility?
* Autoconfig hasn't been much of a maintenance burden lately.
* Autofixers and popular shared configs could replace the need for autoconfig by automatically adapting existing code to common styles.
* ESLint itself assumes `5` if no `ecmaVersion` is supplied, so defaulting to `2018` in `--init` could be confusing.
* @nzakas proposes to accept the prompt changes and open a separate issue to discuss autoconfig. :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @kaicataldo, @btmills, @platinumazure

**Resolution**: We will change the questions asked during `--init` and discuss removing autconfig in a separate issue.

### Improving Communication

* I'd [@nzakas] like to suggest that any change affecting the team should be sent to either the TSC or team mailing lists prior to the action being taken. This past weekend there was a bunch of rearranging of teams on the organization that triggered emails to people without any heads up. Also, issue templates were updated to automatically add labels, which broke the current workflow (see eslint/eslint-github-bot#99).
* The mailing list would become the source of truth, with Gitter as an additional heads-up.
* :+1: from @not-an-aardvark, @kaicataldo, @btmills. @platinumazure defers to group consensus.

**Resolution**: Notifications will be sent to the team mailing list for changes affecting the team.

### Mailing List Responses

* It seems like when emails are sent to any of the mailing lists, they don't receive many replies (if any). I'd like to understand why that is as I think the mailing lists are a much better way of making sure people see important information as opposed to Gitter, where it's easy to miss things.
* People tend not to reply if they feel they don't have anything sufficiently substantive to say.
* Not everyone is subscribed to the support mailing list (eslint@googlegroups.com). @nzakas asks everyone to subscribe.
* @nzakas proposes everyone replying to team mailing list discussions, even if just to say "I don't have a strong opinion on this." :+1: from @btmills, @not-an-aardvark, @kaicataldo, @platinumazure

**Resolution**: Everyone will subscribe to the support mailing list, and everyone will at least reply to team mailing list discussions indicating they've read and don't have strong opinions.

### Team Nomination Procedure

* A committer nomination has been pending for a while due to consecutive cancelled meetings.
* This can be the first run of the new nomination process, provided we move quickly.

**Resolution**: We'll start the new processes and get it done this week.

### [Scheduled release for January 4th, 2019](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11211)

**Resolution**: @not-an-aardvark and @btmills will do the release.
