# 2019-May-09 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2019/05/09

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC

Additionally, the following individuals are not in attendance but support consensus:

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC

## Topics

### [should throw an error when disabling a non-existent rule](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/9505)

**TSC Summary:** The main issue is that if a rule is disabled, either in a config file or in an inline comment, the disable would silently do nothing and the user would never know. We thought this would be a problem for end users, but Jordan Harband pointed out that this has a large negative effect on plugin maintainers that want to support multiple versions of ESLint. This issue was originally created and accepted as a bug and I don't believe sufficient discussion has occurred that takes into account the negative side effects of the original design. I believe this should not be in 6.0.0 and that this needs more discussion, possibly even an RFC.

**TSC Question:** Should we remove this from 6.0.0 and ask for further design discussion? As an ancillary question, should we require an RFC for this change?

* :+1: to removing from 6.0.0 from @btmills and @ilyavolodin
* @not-an-aardvark suggests only throwing an error for non-existent rules in configuration comments.
* @ilyavolodin suggests this could cause issues if a CI server is running a different version of ESLint, but @not-an-aardvark points out this is already an issue elsewhere, so not something we need to address today.
* :+1: to @not-an-aardvark's proposal to restrict the error to config comments and wait for config files from @mysticatea and @btmills. No objections from @ilyavolodin.

**Resolution**: We'll only throw an error when disabling a non-existing rule via a configuration comment in 6.0.0 and decide what to do about configuration files later.

### [Scheduled release for May 10th, 2019](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11680)

**Resolution**: @ilyavolodin and @not-an-aardvark will do the release.
