# 2019-April-11 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2019/04/11

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC

Additionally, the following individuals are not in attendance but support consensus:

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC

## Topics

### [Add an option to not throw an error on an unmatched pattern](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10587)

* :+1: from @btmills outside the meeting
* :+1: from @platinumazure
* @not-an-aardvark is fine with adding the option but unsure how useful it will actually be in the community
* @mysticatea suggests not erroring if folders named in the pattern exist. @not-an-aardvark suggests that this could
be added separately/by default in a later PR, @mysticatea agrees.

**Resolution**: This is accepted, and we can consider partial path matching in the future.

### [eslint-recommended changes in eslint v6.0.0](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10768)

**TSC Summary**: We need to finalize a decision for which rules to add to `eslint:recommended` in v6.

**TSC Question**: What rules should be added?

* @platinumazure likes @not-an-aardvark's [proposal](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10768#issuecomment-473204523).
* @nzakas had raised concerns about `no-prototype-builtins` outside the meeting. @platinumazure and @mysticatea are neutral about
adding it, @not-an-aardvark is strongly in favor.
* @platinumazure proposes accepting everything but `no-prototype-builtins` now, and discussing no-prototype-builtins at next TSC
meeting. @mysticatea and @not-an-aardvark agree. @not-an-aardvark notes that he will probably request an up-or-down vote on
`no-prototype-builtins` at next TSC meeting.

**Resolution**: We will modify `eslint:recommended` as follows:

* Add `no-misleading-character-class`
* Add `no-async-promise-executor`
* Add `require-atomic-updates`
* Add `no-shadow-restricted-names`
* Add `no-useless-catch`
* Add `no-with`
* Remove `no-console`

And we will discuss `no-prototype-builtins` in the next TSC meeting.

### [Scheduled release for April 12th, 2019](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11575)

**Resolution**: We were unable to determine release owners or a timeslot. We will do so outside of the meeting in Gitter chat.
