# 2019-November-07 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2019/11/07

## Attending

* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC

Additionally, the following individuals are not in attendance but support consensus:

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC

## Topics

### [New: `ESLint` Class Replacing `CLIEngine`](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/40)

* @mysticatea hopes to advance this RFC to the Final Commenting stage after this meeting.
* Per @ilyavolodin, "This is a huge change to the core, so we need to get as much feedback as possible before we decide to go one way or the other."
* @mysticatea considered using Node.js streams instead of async iterables, but that would require minimum Node.js `v10.17.0`, whereas RFC44 decided on a minimum version of `10.0.0`.
* Use of async iterables will not preclude adding stream-based APIs in the future.
* Rather than adding async linting and async plugin loading and deprecating some `CLIEngine` APIs in a single change, an alternative would be an `executeOnFilesAsync` method to support parallel linting and formatters reporting progress.
* @platinumazure prefers to do everything as a single breaking change to minimize churn for users and maintenance cost compared to a sequence of major API changes.
* @ilyavolodin wants to enable parallel linting but doesn't see that completely changing ESLint APIs to async buys us enough to justify the effort, especially since the CLI is mostly async.
* @mysticatea listed different levels of feature support as a downside of the `executeOnFilesAsync` approach as compared to `executeOnFiles`.
* As long as `executeOnFilesAsync` produces the same results as `executeOnFiles`, @btmills feels that `executeOnFilesAsync` additionally supporting parallel linting and formatters reporting progress is fine.
* If we have both sync and async APIs, @mysticatea confirms that RFC45 allows one formatter to support both APIs and gracefully enhance with progress when using the async API.
* Consensus appears to be that we 1) want to support parallel linting, which 2) requires an async API somewhere, but 3) we want input from @nzakas before we decide where to put that API. :+1: from @platinumazure, @btmills, @mysticatea, @ilyavolodin.

**Resolution**: We want to support parallel linting, but we want input from @nzakas before we decide how to do it.

### [Update: deprecate sourceCode#isSpaceBetweenTokens()](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/12519)

#### TSC Summary

While fixing a bug in in `sourceCode#isSpaceBetweenTokens()`, I noticed that the current documentation is incorrect, also making the name of the method not quite correct.

#### TSC Question

In addition to the bug fix/documentation corrections in #12491, I'd like to propose we deprecate `sourceCode#isSpaceBetweenTokens()` to in favor of `sourceCode#isSpaceBetween()`. This more accurately describes the behavior, as the method currently will check between nodes as well as tokens, and better matches the names of other `sourceCode` methods that check between nodes or tokens.

This PR currently deprecates `sourceCode#isSpaceBetweenTokens()` in a backwards compatible way, having it call through to the new method.

* :+1: from @btmills, @mysticatea, @platinumazure, @ilyavolodin

**Resolution**: Add `sourceCode#isSpaceBetween()` and deprecate `sourceCode#isSpaceBetweenTokens()`.
