# 2019-May-23 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2019/05/23

## Attending

* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC

Additionally, the following individuals are not in attendance but support consensus:

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC

## Topics

### [[6.0.0-alpha.1] `RuleTester` fails tests if `parser` property is a package name](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11728)

**TSC Summary:**

This is an awareness that came from [the failing CI build of `eslint-plugin-import`](https://travis-ci.org/benmosher/eslint-plugin-import/jobs/533124402). We no longer support a package name in the `parser` option in `RuleTester`. This has been introduced in https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/7 intentionally because where it's unclear to load the package from. But for 99.99% of users, `parser` is packages such as `babel-eslint`, `vue-eslint-parser`, `@typescript-eslint/parser`. and etc. Therefore, disallowing a package name would be a surprising behavior.

Opinions:

- @not-an-aardvark and @platinumazure ... https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11728#issuecomment-493119553
- @mysticatea ... https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11728#issuecomment-493307839

**TSC Question:**

What is the direction we want to go?

1. The `parser` requires an absolute path. Just we add the description of that into the migration guide.
1. The `parser` allows a package name as similar to ESLint 5 and loads it from CWD. We add the change of the place that ESLint loads the package from, into the migration guide. (On ESLint 5, `RuleTester` had loaded packages from the location ESLint was installed.)
1. Others.

* @not-an-aardvark prefers requiring an absolute path to avoid potentially confusing errors in rare cases. In the error message could suggest replacing `parserName` with `require.resolve(parserName)`.
* @ilyavolodin concurs because it affects a very small portion of users (plugin creators, and only if they use a custom parser).
* @btmills concurs provided the error message suggests the fix.
* @mysticatea prefers changing to accept a package name and try to load it from CWD, but is okay as-is.

**Resolution**:  We will keep the behavior as-is and add new wording to the error message telling users to use `require.resolve`.

### ["semi-spacing" rule doesn't work after "while"](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11721)

**TSC Summary:**

An issue was reported where the `semi-spacing` rule does not check the space before or after a control statement with empty body (such as `while (/*condition*/) ;`). After some discussion between a few team members, consensus could not be reached on whether this should be regarded as a bug, an enhancement to `semi-spacing`, or justification for a new rule altogether. Discussion seems to hinge on whether the rule should be token-based and should work on most/all semicolon tokens regardless of node context, or if the rule should be node-based and should have different functionality for EmptyStatement nodes that are the body of control statements.

**TSC Question:**

* Should the original issue be regarded as a bug, an enhancement request (i.e., is a new option needed for this case), or a feature request (i.e., is a new rule needed)?
* Should we take any action around the other gap identified (no rule for enforcing space between conditional and single statement body)?

* @ilyavolodin feels this is a bug, and `semi-spacing` should warn in this case. The rule should care only about whitespace around the semicolon and not the semantics of the code.
* Per @mysticatea's [proposal](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11721#issuecomment-494353167), `semi-spacing` would ignore `EmptyStatement`s, and a new rule would handle this case.
* @not-an-aardvark and @btmills leaning toward exploring @mysticatea's proposal and leaving `semi-spacing` as-is for now.
* Tabled due to lack of time.

### [Scheduled release for May 24th, 2019](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11709)

This release will be assigned in the chat.
