# 2019-July-18 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2019/07/18

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC

Additionally, the following individuals are not in attendance but support consensus:

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC

## Topics

### [Issues closed without discussion](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/141#issuecomment-511232394)

#### TSC Summary

It feels like a larger number of issues are getting closed with little or no discussion than we have had in the past. I think this is happening because the team is busier at the moment, but I'm worried that it makes it feel like we're ignoring proposals.

Generally, I think our process of auto-closing issues has worked well for us, but I do think it doesn't work as well when the team is busier. 

#### TSC Questions:

1. Is our current process working? Can we improve it?
1. Can we make sure that we're at least leaving a comment kicking off a discussion when we add labels? I think removing the `triage` label before a team member comments can lead to nobody from the team commenting on it before it gets auto-closed.

* @mysticatea suggests that the bot could check if there are comments from the team before auto-closing issues. :+1: from @btmills, @kaicataldo

**Resolution**: The bot should not close auto-close an issue if there are no comments from team members.

### [Proposal for adding a build step](https://github.com/eslint/eslint.github.io/issues/576)

#### TSC Summary

We now have a build step! The final thing to decide here is if we want to stop publishing to GitHub Pages.

We can't actually unpublish the GitHub Pages site unless we delete the master branch or delete (I think that means we can rename?) the repo. According to [GitHub's documentation](https://help.github.com/en/articles/renaming-a-repository), it looks like it'll forward any traffic even if we rename it.

> In addition to redirecting web traffic, all `git clone`, `git fetch`, or `git push` operations targeting the previous location will continue to function as if made on the new location.

One thing I'm not sure of is if we can rename it back to eslint/eslint.github.io, but since we plan on adding a build step, we probably want a non *.github.io repo anyway, so I don't think it's a concern for us.

#### TSC Question

Should we rename this repo to `eslint/website`?

* This change is reversible in case we need to change it back.
* @platinumazure asks if there are any downsides.
* We could redirect `eslint.github.io` to `eslint.org`, with a `CNAME` in the repository, but that's probably not necessary.
* :+1: to renaming from @platinumazure, @btmills, @mysticatea, @kaicataldo, @not-an-aardvark

**Resolution**: Rename the `eslint/eslint.github.io` repository to `eslint/website`.

### [Breaking: Drop support for Node v6 in eslint-scope](https://github.com/eslint/eslint-scope/pull/54)

#### TSC Summary

`eslint-scope` currently supports Node >=4.0.0. This PR drops support for Node 4 & 6 since we have dropped support in ESLint core. There were some concerns raised about doing this, because Webpack relies on `eslint-scope` directly. I'm not sure how to proceed with this, so figured it was good to have the TSC make a decision.

#### TSC Question

Do we want to accept this?

* [For reference](https://github.com/eslint/eslint-scope/pull/54#pullrequestreview-262205149), webpack 5 dropped support for Node v6 in [webpack/webpack#7593](https://github.com/webpack/webpack/pull/7593).
* :+1: from @platinumazure, @not-an-aardvark, @mysticatea, @btmills, @kaicataldo

**Resolution**: Drop support for Node v6 in `eslint-scope`.

### [cli: Have a dedicated option to show up local environment information](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11958)

**TSC Summary**: The issue template for a bug report asks the user to provide information concerning the local environment.

**TSC Question**: Should we add a dedicated CLI option (e.g. `eslint --info`) that would generate this information automatically?

* @not-an-aardvark asks if this should report runtime diagnostics as well. If we print to `stderr`, we wouldn't have to modify formatters.
* @mysticatea mentions the confusion about global/local installation. The output should include this information.
* We can work out exact implementation details on the issue.
* :+1: from @ilyavolodin on the issue and @not-an-aardvark, @kaicataldo, @platinumazure, @btmills, and @mysticatea in the meeting

**Resolution**: Add a CLI option to print diagnostic information to be used when opening an issue.

### [Scheduled release for July 19th, 2019](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11955)

* Nobody in the meeting will be available, so we'll assign the release outside of the meeting.
