# 2019-April-25 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2019/04/25

## Attending

* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC

Additionally, the following individuals are not in attendance but support consensus:

* Nicholas C. Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC

## Topics

### [Adding `no-prototype-builtins` to `eslint:recommended`](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10768#issuecomment-486803164)

* This discussed in the previous meeting. Other rules were approved, but a decision on `no-prototype-builtins` was deferred because only three members attended that meeting.
* [@nzakas feels that](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10768#issuecomment-477757086) the rule addresses an edge case that most users won't encounter.
* This rule is only necessary if a) using an object as a map instead of an ES6 `Map` and b) the object's keys can contain untrusted data. Using builtin methods in this case is a bug, and a potentially severe one that could lead to a crash.
* Explicitly calling methods off of the prototype is valid even if the object is known to contain only safe keys unless the developer has intentionally overridden one of the builtin methods. It could be helpful to explicitly note those cases with `eslint-disable` comments for this rule.
* @mysticatea suggests enabling this with autofix, but that could result in an incorrect fix in the scenario described above where someone intentionally overrode the method, so we can't implement autofix.
* @not-an-aardvark is strongly in favor of adding. @mysticatea, @platinumazure, and @btmills feel less strongly but still support inclusion.

**Resolution**: We will enable `no-prototype-builtins` in `eslint:recommended` in v6.

### [Scheduled release for April 26th, 2019](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11613)

**Resolution**: We were unable to determine release owners or a timeslot. We will do so outside of the meeting in Gitter chat.
