# 2019-January-31 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2019/01/31

## Attending

* Nicholas Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Teddy Katz (@not-an-aardvark) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Kevin Partington (@platinumazure) - TSC

## Topics

### [Remove non-recommended rules from recommended config](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/10873)

**TSC Summary**:

The `eslint:recommended` config contains all ESLint rules. Non-recommended rules are explicitly set to "off", while recommended rules are set to "error".

This impacts users who might wish to extend eslint:recommended after having already extended a different configuration. The rules configured as "off" will override any rules configured as "warn" or "error" in the extended configuration.

In practice, this is pretty rare. However, it also seems that eslint:recommended should not explicitly turn off other rules.

**TSC Question**: Should we remove non-recommended rules from the eslint:recommended config in the next major release?

* :+1: from @kaicataldo, @not-an-aardvark, @ilyavolodin, @nzakas, @btmills

**Resolution**: The issue is accepted for the next major release.

### [Claiming the ESLint project on Open Collective](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/116#issuecomment-458618487)

**TSC Summary**: I'd [@nzakas] like to claim the ESLint project on Open Collective to get the initial setup of the page going. We don't need to make a formal announcement until we've figured out the messaging, but this would allow us to start integrating with the API to do things like automate the pulling of sponsor logos on the website.

* @btmills, @not-an-aardvark, and @kaicataldo in favor. @ilyavolodin supports with reservations.
* We haven't voted in a meeting whether to pursue starting an Open Collective, so @nzakas suggests starting there.
* Because people are donating for what is effectively charity, @ilyavolodin feels the fees for using Open Collective seem a bit much.
* For clarity, fees are structured as follows:
    * Open Collective itself takes 5% of whatever is donated to run the platform.
	* For small donations via Stripe or PayPal, there is an additional payment processor fee. Open Collective can work with sponsors to accept large donations directly without incurring this additional fee.
	* The Open Source Collective charges a 5% fee to handle non-profit status and administrative tasks including taxes and paperwork.
	* Expenses paid via PayPal incur a fee. Open Collective can work with individuals to deposit large expenses via ACH without incurring this additional fee.
* Open Collective is already an approved vendor at many companies that might want to contribute.
* We could choose another project host than Open Source Collective, or host it ourselves, but the group generally agrees that 5% is worth it to avoid having to take the time to manage the details ourselves.
* @nzakas asks if we should sign up for Open Collective. :+1: from @kaicataldo, @not-an-aardvark, @btmills, @ilyavolodin, @nzakas

**Resolution**: We will sign up for Open Collective.

### [TSC "Supports Consensus" Status](https://github.com/eslint/tsc-meetings/issues/116#issuecomment-458618487)

**TSC Summary**: As we have some TSC members who aren't actively participating but we expect will return, I'd [@nzakas] like to discuss having a formal "support consensus" status for these TSC members. The reason is that, by our governance rules, the 8-member TSC board needs 5 members for quorum, and we often only get exactly 5 members for TSC meetings. If anyone else disappears for a while, we would technically be stuck without the ability to make decisions. I'd like to recommend we offer a "support consensus" status to absent TSC members. When a TSC member has a "support consensus" status, we would could count them as present for meetings even when they are not and would assume that they would vote along with the consensus for the purposes of decision-making. (This could apply for anyone who anticipates missing more than two meetings in a row, for example.)

* Q: How do we track the "supports consensus" status? A: @nzakas proposes creating a sub-team under the ESLint TSC team. Members of the sub-team would still have all the permissions of the greater TSC team, but their status would be available for the record.
* Q: Is this functionally equivalent to temporarily removing those members from the TSC? A: Yes. The member would not be counted as absent.
* Q: How does this affect quorum rules in meetings? A: One less person would be needed to achieve quorum. We should still determine a minimum number of TSC members present to make decisions.
* Q: How do we determine which members are "supporting consensus?"
    * @nzakas originally suggested if someone misses at least two consecutive meetings, they could be considered as "supports consensus."
	* Should this require an explicit opt-in from the TSC member?
	* TSC members could voluntarily "support consensus," or, if they haven't been active in a while, a team member could email and ask if they'd like that status. It would only be applied without opt-in if they don't reply.
* This shouldn't have any impact on our consensus-seeking process. We try to avoid anything coming to a majority vote. In the case where fewer than a majority of TSC members are present and consensus cannot be reached, the issue would likely be deferred until more members are present even if the rules don't require it.
* @nzakas proposes as follows:
    1. TSC members can declare themselves "on leave" (or some other terminology) which means they are temporarily removing themselves from the TSC.
    1. Regular quorum rules still apply, it will just be calculated with one less TSC member available.
    1. We can create a subteam of "ESlint TSC" that tracks the "on leave" TSC members
    1. TSC members on leave can rejoin at any time and count towards quorum again.
* :+1: from @btmills, @kaicataldo, @ilyavolodin, @not-an-aardvark, @platinumazure

**Resolution**: We have resolved to trial @nzakas' proposal above. @nzakas will reach out to @gyandeeps and @mysticatea to see if they'd like to take advantage of the new status.

### [Scheduled release for February 1st, 2019](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/11303)

**Resolution**: @ilyavolodin and @btmills will do the release.
