# 27-Oct-2016 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2016/10/27

## Attending

* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* alberto (@alberto) - TSC
* Kai Cataldo (@kaicataldo) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC

## Topics

### [Deprecate prefer-reflect](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/7226)

* TSC Summary: We've been finding more problems with the prefer-reflect rule, as this issue is one of a handful that have popped up. Instead of continuing to tweak the rule, the current proposal is to deprecate prefer-reflect, as it seems like it's original purpose doesn't make much sense now that we all understand ES6 better.
* TSC Question: shall we deprecate this rule? If yes, how do we handle the case where a rule is deprecated without a replacement?

**Resolution**: Deprecate prefer-reflect rule and update documentation explanaining why this rule will not be replaced

### [Release a new version of eslint-config-eslint](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/7414)

* TSC Summary: Our internal ESLint configuration, package "eslint-config-eslint", hasn't been updated on npm for nine months. This means that other ESLint repos which use it aren't getting the benefits of recent changes to that configuration.
Since changing a config is probably a breaking change for consumers (we consider it as such with eslint:recommended, after all), I believe we should publish a major version.
* TSC Question: Should we publish a new major version for eslint-config-eslint?
 I would like to expand the question to: Should we consider doing a release of eslint-config-eslint any time we do major release for ESLint?
So the issue is that package eslint-config-eslint hasn't been released in a very long time

**Resolution**: Verify that configuration is stable and after that release a new major version of eslint-config-eslint. It should follow it's own release cycle.

### [Generate warnings for deprecated rules](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/7443)
* TSC Summary: We currently support warnings for rules that have been outright removed (and only core rules). Now that we have meta.deprecated, users may wish to see that a core or plugin rule has been deprecated.
* TSC Question: Should we augment ESLint core to generate a warning message when rules are deprecated? If so, should we support more metadata fields to allow rule maintainers to indicate the upgrade path and/or removal timeline?

* @mysticatea raised a concern it could be a breaking change, causing problems with editors and CI
* @ilyavolodin proposed to make sure that `quiet` would remove those warnings and to request a WIP PR. @alberto was still worried about it breaking CI in some scenarios

**Resolution**: No decision was made and issue was left for next meeting to hear opinions from other TSC members

### [no-useless-escape false negative](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/7425)
* TSC Summary: no-useless-escape currently has a false negative in regex character classes. This is clearly a bug in the rule, but there is reason to believe that the fix might have an unusually large impact on the ecosystem (there are 11 existing violations in the ESLint codebase that were not caught due to the bug). In addition, it's plausible that a user might be okay with useless escapes in character classes for readability, even though these escapes are useless according to the rule's definition. The current proposal is to accept this PR as a bugfix (since the rule is currently not working as intended), and add an opt-out option to ignore character classes (something like #7455).

* TSC Question: Should we merge this PR for the upcoming release and consider the opt-out option separately? If not, how should we handle this fix?

**Resolution**: Merge as is


