# 17-Nov-2016 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2016/11/17

## Attending

* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* alberto (@alberto) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC

## Topics
### [Allow output when fixes are automatically applied](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/7404)
* TSC Summary: The request is to add some additional output when ESLint has successfully applied fixes so that users are aware that fixes were applied. There are a few implementation possibilities, including updating every formatter or having the ESLint CLI just output warnings itself. All options are considered breaking because it will affect ESLint output that other tools might be relying on. It is possible to create custom formatters to accomplish the same result.
* TSC Question: Do we want to pursue this in core, or should we encourage people to create custom formatters if they want such functionality?

**Resolution**: Issue accepted. It was voted together with the next issue (see below for details).

### [Report format: log number of fixable problems] (https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/7364)

* TSC Summary: The proposal is to somehow output the number of possible fixes ESLint could apply when run without the --fix option. There's a practical problem in that we don't actually know this information and it's not possible calculate without attempting to apply the fixes.
* TSC Question: Is it worth pursuing an implementation for this feature given the restrictions?
This issue has two problems, first - we can't guarantee that the number of possible fixes will be exact
Second - again, we have to output this with formatters somehow

* Both requests look reasonable and useful, the only concern is about breaking changes. There was some discrepancy on whether changing the output should be considered a breaking change.

**Resolution**: It was decided to accept both issues. More discussion is needed for both issues in regards to formatter changes.
We should try to make them non-breaking, and if we can't do that, we should make a breaking change that would support other cases (like deprecated rules)
