# 18-Aug-2016 ESLint TSC Meeting Notes

## Transcript

https://gitter.im/eslint/tsc-meetings/archives/2016/08/18

## Attending

* Nicholas Zakas (@nzakas) - TSC
* Ilya Volodin (@ilyavolodin) - TSC
* Brandon Mills (@btmills) - TSC
* Gyandeep Singh (@gyandeeps) - TSC
* Toru Nagashima (@mysticatea) - TSC
* Alberto Rodríguez (@alberto) - TSC

## Topics

### https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/6854

* Add additional error messages for when plugins/configs include whitespaces to make it easier to find problems.

**Resolution:** Agreement to do name validation with error message and not automatically try to fix plugin names.

### https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/6759

* Currently cwd is used to resolve relative paths in an ignore file. When using --ignore-path, the current working directory can be vastly different from the directory of the ignore file. Because of this, the wrong files are ignored if using --ignore-path to a file which is not located within the cwd.
* Proposal: Modify the file resolution to use the directory containing the ignore file, so that the patterns within the ignore file will always be treated as relative to the file's location.
* TSC Question: There seems to be consensus in this issue that the proposal above should be accepted. The question before the TSC is whether this change in core behavior should be treated as a bugfix or a breaking change.

**Resolution:** Accepted as a breaking change.

### https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/6724

* proposal is to move the comment attachment calculation into ESLint core, so that parsers just have to pass in the top-level comments array and ESLint will figure out where it goes

**Resolution:** Accepted.

### https://github.com/eslint/eslint/issues/6362

* We've uncovered a bug where scoped npm packages (such as @foo/eslint-plugin-bar) cannot have their rules configured using @foo/bar/rule and instead must use bar/rule.
* TSC Question: Should we fix this all at once or do it incrementally

**Resolution:** Approved. adopt the incremental approach: start by accepting @me/foo/rule in addition to foo/rule and then, in the next major release, we will remove the latter capability.

### Should new rule option that's turned on by default and will result in more errors reported be considered a breaking change.

**Resolution:** Adding a new option that is on by default and introduces new warnings will be a major version change. @alberto to update README file.
